Elder Thomas S. Monson

Of the Council of the Twelve

• President Smith, when I am in your

presence I think of the principle of

courage, for it was 15 years ago in the

building to the south of us, the Assembly Hall, when you presided at a

conference where I was called as a

member of the stake presidency. I

remember the day well. I was singing

in an Aaronic Presthood chorus. I

was a bishop, and bishopric members

always sing when the Aaronic Priesthood participates.

As President Smith stepped to the

pulpit, he read my name as a member

of the stake presidency. It was the first

notification I had had of my appointment. He then used these words to

introduce me: "If Brother Monson

would now like to accept this calling,

we would be pleased to hear from

him."

May I quote to you the last line of

the hymn we had just concluded singing: "Have courage, my boy; have

courage, my boy, to say no." I used

as my theme that bright June day:

"Have courage, my boy, to say yes,"

and it requires courage every time I

stand at this pulpit.

New adult magazine

My brethren, tonight we have heard

stimulating messages relating to a

magazine for our small children and

another magazine for our youth. Speaking as an adult, your thought and concern could well be, "What about

Mother and me?" To this question I

would reply: "Let not your heart be

troubled. You, too, will have your

magazine."

The new adult magazine will replace

three well-known publications: the

Improvement Era, the Relief Society

Magazine, and the Instructor. However, the most outstanding and useful

features of each of these excellent

publications will be retained and become a vital part of the new magazine.

The readership audience will be the

adult membership of the Church.

The Ensign

Just as a new city or child receives

a name, so must the new adult

magazine. The selection has not been

made without thorough study and

much prayer. You will recognize the

name. The prophet Isaiah particularly

stressed its significance. He declared

that the Lord will lift up "an ensign

to the nations"; ye shall "be left as a

beacon upon the top of a mountain,

and as an ensign on an hill." (Isa.

11:12; 30:17.) And in this dispensation,

the Lord spoke: ". . . Zion shall flourish, and the glory of the Lord shall

be upon her; And she shall be an

ensign unto the people. . .

." (D&C 64:

41-42.) The name of the new adult

magazine will be The Ensign of The

Church of ]esus Christ of Latter-day

Saints. Its contents will be as a beacon

upon the top of a mountain and as an

ensign on a hill, that the adults of

the Church might be more adequately

prepared to be examples to their children and to the world.

Questions answered

Several significant questions have

accompanied the announcement in the

Church News relative to the new adult

publication. Perhaps a review of them

would be helpful:

Question #1: Who should subscribe

to the Ensign?

Answer: The First Presidency is

encouraging every English-speaking

family in the Church to be a subscriber. Month-for-month subscription credit on the new adult magazine

will be given present subscribers to the

Era, Instructor, and Relief Society Magazine. For instance, when the Instructor ceases publication December 31,

those subscribers who have perhaps

three issues due them on their present

Instructor subscription will receive,

without charge, three issues of the

Ensign. The same applies to the Era

and Relief Society Magazine as they

conclude their publication at the end

of the year.

Question #2: What will be the annual subscription price of the Ensign?

Answer: In the past we have rather

expected our families to subscribe to

all three adult publications, which at

present rates amounts to $10.50. Families will now pay just $4.00 for the

Ensign—a savings to families of $6.50.

Question #3: Will lessons for Relief

Society appear in the Ensign?

Answer: No. These will be published in lesson manual style as is

presently the practice in other auxiliary

organizations and in priesthood quorums. The sisters should note, however, that the Relief Society lessons for

the period January 1, 1971, through

August 30, 1971, will already have been

published in the Relief Society Magazine, concluding with the December

issue.

Question #4: What will be the anticipated beginning circulation for the

Ensign?

Answer: The Ensign will be the

largest in circulation of the three new

magazines, with an initial print order

or press run of over 325,000 copies.

Question #5: Who will have the responsibility of publishing the Ensign?

Answer: The magazine will be published under the supervision of the

First Presidency. Members of the

Council of the Twelve and other General Authorities who have supervisory

responsibility for Church programs for

adults will have special assignments

with the magazine, as will the presidencies and superintendencies of auxiliary organizations at the level of the

general boards. The correlation program secretaries also will play a vital

part in producing the publication. The

Ensign will have a talented and experienced staff, headed by Doyle L.

Green as managing editor, with M.

Dallas Burnett as associate editor.

Question #6: What will the magazine contain?

Answer: The Ensign will be written

in such a way as to enhance its use.

There will be articles on home teaching, family home evenings, missionary,

welfare, and genealogical work. Leadership and teacher development will also

be vital features. Material from the

Ensign will be used widely in every

teaching classroom of the Church, including that special classroom called

home. In addition, there will be fiction, poetry, and those feature articles

which have been so popular in the

present adult publications.

This, then, will be The Ensign of

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints—your adult publication.

Subscribe to it. Read its contents. Apply

in your lives its lessons. You, too, will

then be as an ensign, even the light of

the world, a city of righteousness set

on a hill that cannot be hid.

Quality of teaching

As mentioned, information about the

new teacher development program will

be one of the features contained in the

Ensign. The First Presidency has asked

that I now introduce to you this inspired new program, which has the

potential to improve the quality of

teaching throughout the Church.

Brethren, have you as a father ever

asked your son this question: "Dick,

how did the Sunday School class go

today?" Young men, on occasion have

you answered: "Not so good, Dad. My

teacher didn't show up"? Perhaps your

reply was: "My teacher, Brother Campbell, tries hard, but he just doesn't

communicate."

If we are honest with ourselves, some

version of this same dialogue has been

heard in every Latter-day Saint home.

Nor is it restricted to Sunday School,

but it also extends to Primary, MIA,

Relief Society, and the quorums of the

priesthood.

John Milton described this plight in

these words: "The hungry sheep look

up but are not fed." (Lycidas.) The

Lord himself said to Ezekiel the

prophet, "Woe be to the shepherds of

Israel that . . . feed not the flock."

(Ezek. 34:2-3.)

Skilled teachers needed

Are wise shepherds, even skilled and

righteous teachers, needed today? Our

fast-moving jet-propelled world harbors pressures and temptations not

previously known.

More than $500 million a year are

spent on pornographic literature by

which evil men try to "dig gold out of

dirt." Magazines, movies, TV programs, and other mass media are

frequently utilized to lower moral

standards and induce improper behavior. Crime and delinquency are rampant. Spiritual values are questioned.

The effective teacher is desperately

needed to help us understand what is

genuine and important in this life and

develop the strength to choose the

paths that will keep us safely on the

way to eternal life.

Knowing this situation and sensing

the need for effective action, the First

Presidency in October 1968 called a

committee to work to improve the

quality of teaching throughout the

Church. They counseled that the program should:

1. Be priesthood sponsored and

Churchwide;

2. Help teachers and leaders to improve;

3. Assist prospective teachers to begin their assignments with the training

and spiritual understanding necessary

to be effective.

Importance of teaching role

In January of this year, in an interview published in the Deseret News,

President Joseph Fielding Smith and

his counselors stressed anew the importance of the teaching role. I quote:

"Teaching members of the Church to

keep the commandments of God was

described by the new First Presidency

of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as its greatest challenge."

The goal of gospel teaching today, as

emphasized in the teacher development

program, is not to "pour information"

into the minds of class members. It

is not to show how much the teacher

knows, nor is it merely to increase

knowledge about the Church. The

basic goal of teaching in the Church is

to help bring about worthwhile changes

in the lives of boys and girls, men and

women. The aim is to inspire the individual to think about, feel about, and

then do something about living gospel

principles.

Teacher Development program

To help achieve this goal and meet

this aim, we now introduce to you, the

priesthood, the new teacher development program of the Church.

On Thursday, October 1, 1970, in a

special seminar for Regional Representatives of the Twelve, the teacher

development program was presented in

detail. These devoted and capable

brethren will, in the next six weeks,

outline the program to stake presidencies; and then, January 1, 1971, it

will commence. During the first six

months of 1971, when the General

Authorities visit each stake quarterly

conference, they will emphasize this

program and will report on its implementation.

A cardinal principle of industrial

management teaches: "When performance is measured, performance improves. When performance is measured

and reported, the rate of improvement

accelerates." I think the visit to your

stakes by the General Authorities will

bring the desired acceleration.

Time dictates that my introduction

of the program itself be presented in

headline form:

1. The new Churchwide program is

priesthood sponsored and supersedes

any other teacher training program now

in use.

2. The stake president has responsibility for teacher development in his

stake. He will call a member of the

high council to be stake teacher development director. This high councilor

should be an outstanding teacher who

has the ability to motivate and inspire.

3. The bishop has responsibility for

the teacher development program in his

ward. He will call a capable bearer of

the Melchizedek Priesthood to be the

ward teacher development director.

4. Similar responsibility will rest

with mission presidents, district and

branch presidents in the missions of the

Church.

5. The new teacher development

program consists of three parts: (a)

the basic course; (b) inservice program;

(c) supervision (to be introduced September 1, 1971).

6. The basic course is designed to

help prospective and current teachers to

acquire knowledge and develop skills,

that they might become more effective.

It will be conducted over an 11-week

period, usually during the Sunday

School hour, and involve perhaps eight

persons interviewed and called, by the

bishop, to the course. The instructor

of the basic course will be the ward

teacher development director.

7. The inservice program will be an

outgrowth of the basic course and will

encompass both spiritual principles

and teaching skills. The inservice lessons will be offered ten times per year

for instructors in all priesthood quorums and auxiliaries.

8. The manuals for the basic course

and the inservice program are now

ready for distribution. The administrative manual will be sent to appropriate

stake and ward leaders at no cost to

them. A special order form will be

sent to each bishop, that he may order

the necessary materials to implement

the program. Funds for same may appropriately come from ward and stake

budgets. Individuals may then make

payment to the ward or stake for their

personal binders and materials. Quantity purchasing has provided minimum

unit costs.

9. The program allows for considerable flexibility. In most areas of the

Church, the program should operate

on a ward level. However, options are

available for the basic course and inservice lessons to be conducted on

a multi-ward or stake level where

necessary.

10. The program uses the strengths

and resources of small group participation, with emphasis on doing and

participating in real learning experiences.

Tested on pilot basis

This, then, is the new teacher development program. It has been pretested on a carefully supervised and

controlled pilot basis in the Monument

Park, Walnut Creek, and Gunnison

stakes and the Victoria District of the

Alaska-British Columbia Mission. Will

it bring forth in your ward or stake the

hoped-for results? Listen to the testimonies of but two who have completed

the course:

"For the first time in my life I have

an idea of how to teach."

"Like all blessings in the gospel, this

program will be only as helpful as

those who use it will make it. There

will be those who will say, 'I am a

master teacher. I don't need this.'

They will gain nothing. There are

those who will say, Tm too busy for

this. The Church has too many meetings.' They will gain nothing. There

will be those who will say, 'Here is an

opportunity to learn.' They will gain

much, and the Lord's work will move

ahead."

Invitation to become participants

In The Church of Jesus Christ of

Latter-day Saints, each member, each

priesthood bearer, will likely have an

opportunity to become a teacher. There

is no privilege more noble, no task so

rewarding. May I extend to you, my

brethren of the priesthood, a sincere

invitation to become participants in the

teacher development endeavor. May I

challenge you in the words from the

epistle of James to be "doers of the

word, and not hearers only" (Jas. 1:22),

remembering:

I hear and I forget;

I see and I remember;

I do and I learn.

Others then will follow your example. Teaching will improve. Commandments will be lived. Lives will

be blessed.

The Master Teacher

In Galilee there taught a master

teacher, even Jesus Christ the Lord. He

left his footprints in the sands of the

seashore, but he left his teaching principles in the hearts and in the lives

of all whom he taught. He instructed

his disciples of that day, and to us he

speaks the same words, "Follow thou

me." Then, as now, foolish, unwise

persons will stop their ears, close their

eyes, and turn away their hearts. Let

us remember, there is no deafness so

permanent as the deafness which will

not hear. There is no blindness so incurable as the blindness which will not

see. There is no ignorance so deep as

the ignorance that will not know.

May we, like Thomas of old, not

doubting but believing, respond, "Let

us go." Yes, may we go forward in the

introduction and implementation of

this new program for teacher development. As we do so, in this spirit of

obedient response, it may be said of

each teacher as it was spoken of the

Redeemer, ".

. . thou art a teacher come

from God." (John 3:2.) May this be

so, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ.

Amen.

