Elder Bernard P. Brockbank

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve

• My dear brethren and sisters: As I

have reflected on many of the profound

messages given at this conference, a

passage of scripture kept reflecting in

my mind. The Lord said to the Prophet

Joseph Smith, ".

. . the hour is not yet,

but is nigh at hand, when peace shall

be taken from the earth, and the devil

shall have power over Ins own dominion; And also the Lord shall have

power over his saints, and shall reign

in their midst, and shall come down in

judgment upon . . . the world." (D&C

1:35-36.) We may be in that time.

It's a great day to be a saint, with the

Lord at the head. There seems to be

room on this earth for both saints and

for those who choose another course.

When the Savior closed his ministry

on this earth, he left a message in

closing that it would be unto the ends

of the earth: "Go ye into all the world,

and preach the gospel to every creature." (Mark 16:15.)

We have just returned from Japan,

a marvelous experience there, helping

supervise and direct the work of the

Mormon Pavilion at the World's Fair.

We have a great body of Japanese

people here at this conference. They

are an interesting people. They are a

great people. Many of them are going

to have patriarchal blessings while they

are here. Those who have had patriarchal blessings that I have spoken

with come from the tribe of Joseph, a

fruitful bough.

Expo 70

Expo 70 was the first world's fair to

be staged in Asia and has been acclaimed by many to be the most successful world's fair ever to be held.

Seventy-seven countries and 42 domestic organizations sponsored pavilions

at the fair. There were only two

religious pavilions represented—the

Christian ecumenical pavilion, sponsored by the Catholic and Protestant

churches of Japan, and the Mormon

Pavilion, representing The Church of

Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The

Mormon Pavilion was very popular and

crowded each day from the time the

fair was opened until it closed.

During the six months that the fair

was running, almost 65 million people

attended the fair, and over ten percent

of that 65 million visited the Mormon

Pavilion. Our attendance was 6,658,-

532—almost a miracle for the small

pavilion we had to even come close to

accommodating them.

Many of this number were not able

to see all of the exhibits because of the

crowds or to hear the dialogue and

testimonies of the missionaries. But out

of those who were able to follow the

missionaries and receive the full presentation, 780,000 signed the guest register

referral books, and many of them asked

to know more about the doctrines and

teachings of The Church of Jesus Christ

of Latter-day Saints.

Objective of Mormon Pavilion

The main objectives of our exhibit

were to make friends with these people,

teach them about a living God and

a living Jesus Christ, and to explain

with visual aids the Lord's plan and

purpose of life.

Our most impressive exhibit was the

spirit of the dedicated, loving, inspired

missionaries. The missionaries radiated

a great love for the Oriental people and

the Oriental people had great respect

for the missionaries. One Japanese

gentleman said to me, "I can hardly

believe that such fine, clean young

people would leave their homes, pay

their own way, and learn a new language. They must truly love us."

All the missionaries serving in the

four missions in Japan will have many

additional opportunities to reach and

teach the people as a result of the fair.

Convert baptisms have doubled in

Japan in the past few months and are

still increasing. The Japanese members of the Church are very dedicated,

sincere, loving people.

The country of Japan

The country of Japan covers an area

about the size of the state of California

and has a population of over 101 million people and room for many more.

It is a land filled with religion. There

are 106,000 Buddhist temples and over

100,000 Shinto shrines. Less than one

percent of the Japanese people are

members of a Christian church. There

are about 350,000 who belong to the

Catholic Church, and 400,000 belong

to the various Protestant churches, and

approximately 12,000 are members of

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints.

The Japanese people are seeking and

looking for better ways and seem to

be looking for a living God and for a

greater purpose in both life and death,

and many seem to be receptive and

interested in the doctrines and teachings of Jesus Christ.

Letter of Dr. Wheelwright

I would like to read from a letter

we received from Dr. Lorin F. Wheelwright, dean of the College of Fine

Arts and Communications at Brigham

Young University. He sent this letter

after his visit to Expo 70 and the Mormon Pavilion:

"May I share with you the feelings

that sweep over me as I contemplate

my visit with you and as I witnessed

the manner in which our missionaries

used Expo '70 to bring the gospel to

the Japanese people. Never have I

seen such crowds of people, curious

and eager to witness the 'Progress of

Mankind.' Each day I was there more

than 700,000 thronged the fairgrounds.

They fascinated me more than the

spectacular electronic, space, and motion-picture extravaganzas that awaited

them. These patient people would

queue up for two to three hours at each

of the major pavilions. I was impressed

by their orderliness and quiet determination to see what obviously they

had saved their yen to see.

"Our pavilion stood as a landmark

of spirituality in a sea of materialism.

It is true that many pavilions showed

the historical and present concern of

nations and industries for man and his

strivings for a better life. But ours had

the unique contribution of inviting all

men and women to 'the peace that

passeth all understanding.' With the

terrific crowds surging upon you, I

marveled at the calmness of our missionaries, the almost stark simplicity of

our exhibit, the opportunity to sit down

and see a film without distraction,

which told in understandable language

and appealing picture that the quest

for happiness must be a spiritual quest

if ever man is to find it.

"Your kind invitation for me to meet

two groups of missionaries gave me

insight regarding the real reason our

pavilion was different from all others.

These young men and women were

obviously serving beyond the call of

duty. They radiated the fire of St.

Paul and the persistence of Moses.

Their friendly smiles and patient explanations must have been a joy to

the Japanese who personify these characteristics so beautifully. They treated

people with courtesy and let the spirit

of their callings reach out to touch the

spirits of those who came to look and

inquire. When I learned that after

each long day they put on their work

clothes and cleaned the building, I

knew that they personified the bended

knee of reverence and work—both of

which the Savior said were essential

to man's salvation.

"After talking with you, I realized

anew that our message to the world is

not expressed in the slickness of our exhibit. Our appeal is in the sincerity

and truthfulness of the gospel of Jesus

Christ. It is this power that brings

men of all faiths to ask, 'Not who is

right, but what is right?' It is this

testimony which invites the devout

Protestant, Catholic, Buddhist, or athe

ist to ponder his ultimate values and

open his heart to the greater truth that

we bear to the world. Although our

exhibit showed pictures of Mormonism

at work in the lives of our members,

I am convinced that it was the heart

of the message that touched people and

the honesty of the messengers who

opened their eyes and hearts to see and

feel.

"I was thrilled that you called these

missionaries together at the beginning

and closing of each shift to share in

the spirit of devotion. Their prayers

and testimonies touched me deeply."

Comments by visitors

I would like to read a few of the

many thousands of comments that were

written by visitors to the Mormon

Pavilion:

One employee at the fair said, "This

pavilion is our oasis at Expo '70. The

theme of Expo is 'Progress and Harmony for Mankind' and that is 'man's

search for happiness.' I pay my respects to your pavilion for giving us

the living God."

Another: "I think this pavilion gives

me a good opportunity to change my

life. Thanks for the missionaries."

"The movie helped me to know

about my life and that death is not

the end."

"The film made birth, living and

death part of 'man's search for happiness.'

"I am not a Christian, but now I

want to know about Christianity."

"The Mormon Pavilion is my best

memory of Expo. I want to know

more."

"This pavilion moved me to think

about God. I felt his spirit here."

"The moving picture made me reconsider my life and my happiness."

"I found love and truth in this

pavilion."

"I think your religion is true."

"I want to know about Joseph Smith

and the Book of Mormon."

"This is the second time I have

visited the Mormon Pavilion. I want

to know more about Jesus Christ and

true happiness."

"I do not have a religion. I have

found something here to help direct my

life. I want to come again."

"My religion has not taught me

about a living God. I am looking for

God and happiness."

"I have thought that God existed

far from us, but today I felt God near

me. Thanks for this pavilion."

"I am glad to learn that man is a

child of God. I pray for the success

of this pavilion."

"I had no interest in religion when

I came to the fair, but I was moved by

the spirit of the missionaries."

"I felt comfortable without any resistance. I want to know more about

your religion."

"I have always believed that there

was a God, and today I felt deeply his

power."

We had literally thousands and

thousands of comments comparable

to these.

Statement of convert

A young lady, Miss Reimi Yomamota, who served as secretary at the

pavilion and was not a member when

she started but later joined the Church,

made this statement as we were leaving the station: "I received the greatest

blessing of all the people who came to

Expo. I received a testimony of Jesus

Christ and of his gospel. I know that

Joseph Smith is a prophet of God and

that the Book of Mormon is from God."

A young man who worked at the

Russian pavilion came as we were

closing and said, "I feel bad that

this building is closing. I have felt

more happiness and more religion and

more love here than at any other place

I have been in my life."

Answers for world

Brothers and sisters, I must close.

You who have a testimony of the

Lord's work, you who are saints, you

have the answers the world is looking

for, the world would like to know

about a living God. The world would

like to know that the scriptures of God

are true. You have these answers.

Probably the greatest message that

has come to this earth since the resurrection and the ascension of Jesus

Christ is the Joseph Smith testimony.

This was distributed extensively at

Expo.

As the Japanese people come into

the Church, they make great saints

when they are converted.

I bear witness that Jesus Christ is

the God of all mankind, the God of

the yellow race, the red, the black, and

the white races. I bear witness that

Joseph Fielding Smith is the prophet

of all mankind on this earth, to all

races, kindreds, tongues, and people;

and that the only way mankind can

receive celestial glory is by following

the prophet of God and by accepting

the program of Jesus Christ. I so bear

witness in the name of Jesus Christ.

Amen. Q

