Elder Gordon B. Hinckley

Of the Council of the Twelve

• My dear brethren:

Some twenty-five years or more ago

my wife and I built a home. The first

of many trees that we planted was a

thornless honey locust. I remember

the day we brought it home from the

nursery, a spindly little whip of a tree,

so small and supple I could have tied

it into a knot. I dug a hole, put in the

roots, shoveled back the earth, watered

it, and forgot it. It stands at the south

side of the house, where the wind

coming from the canyon to the east

blows hardest.

One winter day a few years ago I

chanced to look out the window at the

tree. I noticed it was terribly misshapen, leaning ungracefully to the

west, so much so that a heavy storm

might have uprooted it. I went to my

toolhouse, where I save things for two

years before throwing them away, got

a block and tackle, anchored one end

to the tree and the other to another

tree, and pulled and pulled to no avail.

The little whip of a tree was now a

giant with a diameter of almost a foot.

After debating with myself for a week

or two, I finally took a pruning saw

and cut off the great west limb. I almost wept at my butchery. It looks

better today. It has straightened somewhat, but where the heavy cut was

made, it developed a great scar, which

has cracked and let in decay.

The tree that might have been gracious and beautiful leaves much to be

desired. Once it could have been kept

straight with a string for an anchor.

Now neither block and tackle nor

pruning saw can make up for the

neglect of its younger years.

Children's Friend

It is so with people. It takes only a

string, as it were, to help children grow

strong and straight in the Church. One

such string has been their own magazine, the Children's Friend. This has

been a great magazine. All who have

been acquainted with it have regarded

it as an outstanding children's journal.

An eminent child psychologist wrote:

"I have known the Children's Friend

as one of the only decently edited

magazines for children in the United

States." Under the program of correlation, instituted by the First Presidency,

the name of the magazine will be

changed. It will simply be the Friend,

dropping the word children's, because

when some youngsters get to be ten

and eleven years of age, they think

they are no longer children. But they

still need a Friend.

The Primary Association will no

longer be its sole sponsor. It will be

published by the Church, with the

Children's Correlation Committee and

representatives of both the Primary and

the Sunday School as editorial consultants. It will be edited by men and

women with long experience, and will

be a new friend, a better friend, for the

children of the Church, and we hope

for many others. With wonderful

stories and fascinating art, it will open

small and delightful windows and

bring to young minds understanding of

eternal and marvelous gospel principles. It will be a blessing in every

home into which it goes.

"As the twig is bent . .

."

Children are so very important. I

never get over the thought that every

man, good or bad, was once a little

boy, and that every woman was once

a little girl. They have moved in the

direction in which they were pointed

when they were small. Truly, "As the

twig is bent, so the tree is inclined."

The time to mold the pattern of virtuous youth and faithful adults is childhood.

"A Friend for Every Child"

Most of you brethren are fathers,

fathers of young children. Some of

you are grandfathers. Others are

bishops or in other capacities with

responsibility for children. We ask

your support in seeing that the Friend

is in every Latter-day Saint home

where there is a child.

It will bless the child and it will

bless the home.

May I leave with you a motto: "A

Friend for Every Child." As children

grow in faithfulness, anchored against

the storms of life, so in strength will

the Church and the nation grow. I

pray that it may be so, in the name of

Jesus Christ. Amen. O

