Elder Richard L. Evans

Of the Council of the Twelve

• President Smith; my beloved brothers and sisters—all our Father's children everywhere: These choice young

people here, whose music we have

heard, bring to mind all the unnumbered others who, worldwide, are looking for a way of life. If what follows

shall reach their hearts and yours, it

will be so because of your faith and

prayers, and I pray that it may be so.

Making the most of life

There comes to mind a mother who

was concerned with what her daughter

was, or wasn't, doing with her talents

and opportunities, and the mother one

day shook her daughter impatiently

and said: "I've given you life. Now you

do something with it!"

We could conceive of the Father of

us all saying about the same: "I've

given you life. Now you do something

with it! Now make the most of it! I've

given you time, intelligence, the good

earth and all it offers—now use it."

One of the most wasteful wastes in

the world is the waste of time, of opportunity, of creative effort, with indifference to learning, indifference to work

—the don't-care, drop-out, what's-theuse attitude. And one of the steadying

factors in life—one that could reduce

restlessness, protest, and discontent

—

would be for all of us to use in more

useful ways the best of our abilities,

with some awareness that the Father of

us all might somehow, sometime shake

us and say (which he has, in more

ways than we sometimes seem to be

aware of) : "I have given you life. Now

you make the most of it!"

The principle of work

When our Father sent our first parents out from Eden, he pronounced, as

I read it, the principle of work: "In

the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat

bread

" (Gen. 3:19.) ". . . cursed is

the ground for thy sake," he said.

(Gen. 3:17. Italics added.)

For thy sake. Work is a principle,

a privilege, a blessing—not a curse

—

but an absolute essential, a physical

and spiritual necessity.

Much restlessness and difficulty on

the part of young people comes because

they have often been overly insulated

from challenging and meaningful assignments, with an overemphasis on

leisure and on working less and less.

Even if a person has all the wealth

he wants, he still needs to work for

the sake of his soul—and the same is

true of those who have learned to live

on very little. Work is a physical and

spiritual necessity.

Anyone, young or old, would be restless if he didn't have a useful part in

helping to bring good things about; a

rewarding and meaningful work to do.

Economic facts of life

Some don't know where things come

from as well as they once did. It's

so easy to go to the shop or the market

without being aware of the toil of

plowing and planting, of making and

producing, or what it takes to bring

things about. Someone has to do

everything—not only the easy and

glamorous things, but every routine and

tedious task. Someone has to do everything.

We need to give our young people

the economic facts of life—as well

as the moral and spiritual facts: what it

means to produce; what it means

to meet a payroll; what it means to provide for a family; what it means to

save—what it means to stay solvent.

I think those who provide productive,

wholesome work for other people are

in a way heroic. Thank God for them.

Now to touch a moment or two on

some other subjects:

The laws of life

We have the laws of life. We have

God-given standards, and we realize

the results of the way we live life

—

and rationalizing won't change the outcome. Virtue is still virtue. Evil is still

evil.

And I come to you today with a

simple assertion that God does not

deal in theories. "I know this world is

ruled by Infinite Intelligence," said

Thomas A. Edison. "It required Infinite Intelligence to create it and it

requires Infinite Intelligence to keep it

on its course. ... It is mathematical

in its precision."

The seasons, the sunshine, the growing of seeds; heat and cold; the life of

a child; the harvest we have—these are

not theory, and the same authority that

runs the universe on such preqision

also gave us commandments to keep,

commandments that are still in force.

And I wouldn't know anywhere to turn

for a purposeful way to live life, except the way prescribed by the Administrator of heaven and earth. After all,

whose little wisdom would we turn

to? He has given us no commandment

that is not necessary—and I witness to

you that the spiritual and moral laws

are as much in force as are the physical laws, and each person is going to

he what he lives like.

Statement of William James

There is a statement from William

James that President McKay occasionally used to quote: "Rip Van Winkle,

in Jefferson's Play, excuses himself for

every fresh dereliction by saying, 'I

won't count this time!' Well, he may

not count it; and a kind heaven

may not count it, but it is being

counted nonetheless. Down among his

nerve cells and fibres, the molecules are

counting it, registering and scoring it

up to be used against him." (The Laws

of Habits.)

Since this is so, thank God for the

principle of repentance—a principle he

gave us because he knew we'd need it.

But our repentance must be sincere

and not the kind that keeps repeating

the same foolish, stupid mistakes. We

must move from weak or willful misdoing to an honest, resolute repentance,

if we are to have the peace and happiness of life.

Better moral environment

Evil is raw, lewd, bold, and unabashed—and greedy—but there is no

gain in this world's goods that is worth

compromising the life or morals of one

young person. We should never patronize evil in any degree, but should

dedicate ourselves to create a clean and

wholesome environment in our homes,

our communities, our country. In

many ways we can have a better moral

and physical environment if we really

want it—we can have in many ways

what we are willing to uphold, to

support, to pay for. But we can't do it

in indifference. And each one will

realize the results of what he does and

thinks—the results of how he lives his

life.

Advice to young people

And to you, beloved young people

everywhere, to you who are searching

for answers, you who have made mistakes, to you who have been mistaught

or carelessly or adversely influenced:

Don't let pride, or wrong habits, or

appetites, or stubbornness get in the

way of your realizing the highest possibilities of life.

Youth passes quickly. The waning

years come sooner than you suppose,

and then there comes the leaving of

this life, and the everlasting future that

follows.

Live so as to be at peace. Be clean,

beloved young friends. Clean is one of

the most wonderful of words. Be comfortable. No one will ever be comfortable without being clean. Life can be

wholesome, with inner peace and solid

hope as you live the law, keep the

commandments, and humble yourselves before our Father.

Live so that you can face yourself,

your Father in heaven, and all men

everywhere.

Each one of you is precious, priceless.

Each one of you is all he has. Life is

all you have. Be kind, be virtuous.

Respect and cherish parents. Make

prayerful choices. Love and serve sincerely. Live in dignity and honesty and

honor. Respect facts. Test them by the

standards God has given. Live by the

law, and the gospel of our Lord and

Savior will lead you to peace and

happiness and the highest possibilities

of everlasting life.

Remember, O remember, my beloved

young friends, that our Lord and

Savior hasn't deceived us. He hasn't

said that it was a broad way, an easyway, or that it could be reached by

indifference or indulgence. He has said

to us fairly and forthrightly: "Enter ye

in at the strait gate: for wide is the

gate, and broad, is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be

which go in thereat:

"Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto

life. . . ." (Matt. 7:13-14.)

There aren't any careless, easy shortcuts that go anywhere that anyone

who knew what he was doing would

really want to go.

Witness of God's work

I leave you my witness that God

lives, and that this is his work, his

church, his plan and purpose for his

children, restored for all who will sin-

cerely seek, and sincerely accept, and

he will enter into your lives as fully

as you let him. And to you—to all of

us—to all his children everywhere, he

is saying: "I have given you life. Now

make the most of it!"

It takes a long time to make a beautiful world. It takes a long time to build

a beautiful life, but the process of

tearing down can quickly do much

damage. O my beloved young friends,

your Father in heaven doesn't deal in

theory. What he has said is so. Trust

him. Trust him who gave you life to

tell you the truth. Whom else would

you trust? Where else would you turn?

Need for respect and courage

Respect yourselves. Respect others.

Respect life. Respect law. Be faithful.

Be fair. Be productive. Live to be clean

and comfortable. Life is all you have.

make the most of it in cleanliness, in

honor and honesty. Don't run your

life against the light.

"My message to you," said Thomas

Edison, in his last public address

—

"My message to you is: Be courageous!

1 have lived a long time. I have seen

history repeat itself again and again.

... Be as brave as your fathers before

you. Have faith! Go forward!"

God bless you, and peace be with

you, this day—and always, I pray in

the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus

Christ. Amen. O

