Elder Mark E. Petersen

Of the Council of the Twelve

• In recent months the plight of the

American Indians has been brought to

public attention in a most impressive

manner.

As a result, further steps will be

taken to improve the lot of these

people, who are among the most neglected of all the minorities on this

continent.

Extensive aid for Indians

We are thankful that the Latter-day

Saints have taken an active part over

the years in providing extensive aid to

them. Particularly have we given assistance in the educational field. This year

daily seminary classes are being provided for more than 15,000 Indian

students, and through the efforts of the

Church an additional 5,000 are receiving full-time elementary and high

school education at no cost to themselves.

We also provide a college program

for many of our Indians, of whom 475

are enrolled this year at Brigham

Young University; 426 took college

work there last year.

Brigham Young University has conferred B.A. degrees upon 85 Indian students recently, and 20 have received

masters or doctors degrees. More than

a score are now enrolled in graduate

school there.

Brigham Young University also has

an Institute of American Indian Research and Services, and through it

supervises more than thirty agricultural

projects for Indians in the Western

America.

Ecclesiastical training is likewise being provided for more than 35,000 Indians who are members of our church.

Pride in ancestral heritage

They are bright and adaptable and

are proud of their ancestral heritage,

for they know they are descended from

a great people.

Recently we attended a gathering of

Mexican residents of Salt Lake City

and heard them express great pride in

their Indian ancestry, and well they

may, for the more we learn about the

early inhabitants of Mexico, the more

we realize that indeed they were truly

a great race.

This conclusion was reached also

by Dr. Alfred V. Kidder, one of the

leading authorities on Mayan culture.

In his book A Guide to Quirigua, this

eminent scholar said:

"The great cities of the old Mayan

Empire were built during the first part

of the Christian era. For nearly 600

years these gifted people were leaders

in art and architecture, mathematics

and astronomy. They evolved a calendar in some ways more accurate than

ours. . . . The growth of the Indian

civilizations, although differing in detail, was strikingly like that of our own.

which originated in Egypt and Mesopotamia. . . . Social and economic

systems were organized, cities grew, religion developed, and temples were

built for worship."

Civilization of ancient America

Writing in a similar vein, in his book

The Marvels of Copan, the historian

Munoz wrote: "Architecture, astronomy, mathematics, painting, weaving

and all the arts that embellish life,

once flourished here."

He emphasized that the forefathers

of the Indians were not savages in any

sense, for no savage, he said, ever conceived of the wonders which were

commonly known among the Mayans.

Dr. Wissler, on page 147 of his book

on Mayan civilization, explains that the

Mayans manufactured paper through

a process similar to that of the Egyptians in making writing materials from

papyrus.

The American Heritage Book of Indians, on page 19, says:

"The Mayans attained the highest

civilization known in ancient America

and one of the highest known any

place in the early world."

These people had a well-developed

irrigation system. They built dams and

aqueducts. They terraced hillsides,

turning them into productive farm

lands by the use of irrigation. These

water systems were in general use 2,000

years before the Spaniards came, and

some of them still exist.

The early Americans were a numerous people. About the time of the conquest there were 25 million in Central

Mexico alone.

Visitation of divine personage

But more impressive than any of

these facts about the early Americans

is their account of a visitation among

their ancestors nearly 2,000 years ago,

of a divine personage who remained

among them for many days, teaching

and blessing them.

These highly intelligent and skillful

early Americans affirmed that this personage taught them a divine religion,

healed their sick, raised some of the

dead, taught new and more productive

agricultural methods, and established

a government of equity and peace.

Their accounts say that he came

among them suddenly and left equally

so, in a supernatural manner. The

ancients regarded him as the Creator,

come to earth in bodily form.

That he was a Christian divinity

none can successfully deny.

That his teachings were akin to the

Bible is now readily admitted.

And that he promised to return in a

second coming is also an acknowledged

fact.

Account of appearance preserved

The account of his appearance was

preserved through generations of Indians from Chile to Alaska, and interestingly enough, it is likewise well

known among the Polynesians from

Hawaii to New Zealand, giving one

more evidence of the close relationship

between the Polynesians and the early

inhabitants of the Americas.

In the main all such accounts agree.

They differ in name and minor details

from island to island and from country

to country, but the overall conclusion

is the same—there was a visitation by a

heavenly being among those people

nearly 2,000 years ago.

Of such veracity is the information

now available concerning him that

Paul Herrmann was induced to say in

his book The Conquest of Man:

"Carefully considered this leaves no

conclusion open than that the Light

God Quetzalcoatl was a real person,

that he was neither the invention of

Spanish propaganda nor a legendary

figment of Indian imagination." (Page

72.)

Keep in mind that this comes from

the highly intelligent early Americans

who knew astronomy, mathematics, irrigation, and architecture. It was not

the dream of an ignorant or superstitious people. It was history from one

of the highest civilizations known

among ancient men.

Names of great being

This great being was known as

Quetzalcoatl in parts of Mexico, primarily in the Cholula area. He was

Votan in Chiapas and Wixepechocha

in Oaxaca; Gucumatz in Guatemala;

Virachocha and Hyustus in Peru;

Sume in Brazil, and Bochica in

Colombia.

To the Peruvians he was also known

as Con-tici or Illa-tici, tici meaning

both creator and light. To the Mayans

he was principally known as Kukulcan.

In the Polynesian islands he was

known as Lono, Kana, Kane, or Kon,

and sometimes as Kanaloa, meaning

the great light or great brightness. He

was also known among some Polynesians as Kane-Akea, the great progenitor, or as Tonga-roa, the god of the

ocean sun.

Description of personage

What did he look like, this divine

personage?

He was described by the ancients as

a tall white man, bearded, and having

blue eyes. He wore loose, flowing robes.

He seemed to be a person of great authority and unmeasured kindness. He

had power to make hills into plains and

plains into high mountains. He could

bring fountains of water from the solid

rock.

One of the remarkable things about

his coming was that he appeared after

several days of dense darkness during

which the people had prayed constantly

for a return of the sun. While the

darkness yet prevailed—and I refer to

the book The Incas, by Pedro de Leon

—the people suffered great hardships

and offered earnest prayers to God,

seeking a return of the light that had

failed.

When at last the sun did shine, this

divinity appeared. Says Pedro de Leon:

He was a "white man of large stature

whose air and Person aroused great

respect and veneration. . . . And when

they saw his power they called him

the Maker of all things; their Beginner; the Father of the sun." (The

Incas.)

Promise of return

This personage, as he taught his religion, urged the people to build temples for worship, and his followers

became very devout. (Pierre Honore,

In Quest of the White God.) As he

left them, he promised to come again,

which caused the natives for many

generations to look for his return even

as the Jews look for their promised

Messiah.

This faith led to disaster on two

occasions, however, when the Spaniards

came to America and when Captain

Cook sailed to the Hawaiian Islands.

But these tragedies served only to reinforce the truth of the tradition.

When Cortez came to Mexico and

the coastal natives saw him, they observed that he was a large white man.

They hurried to their king, Montezuma, and announced that the Great

White God had finally returned.

This had a striking effect upon

Montezuma. He remembered that

when he was crowned as emperor, the

priests of the native religion reminded

him: "This is not your throne; it is

only lent to you and will one day be

returned to the Great One to whom

it is due." (Honore, p. 66.)

The Spanish author Duran, in his

book The Aztecs, says that when

Montezuma sent his faithful servant to

greet Cortez and lead him to the palace,

the servant addressed Cortez as "O

Lord and True God," and added, "welcome to this your country and kingdom." Duran further says that the

Indians considered Cortez' companions

as divine beings also.

This Spanish author then continues:

"There is no doubt that Montezuma

was greatly preoccupied with the return of Quetzalcoatl who had left the

Vera Cruz coast and had promised to

return.

"Montezuma and the other dignitaries of his kingdom were totally convinced that Cortez and Quetzalcoatl

were one and the same, as can be seen

in the chronicles. . . .

"As late as 1864 when the blond

bearded Emperor Maximilian arrived

in Vera Cruz, reminiscences lingered

in the minds of the Indians which reminded them of the promise of the

return of Quetzalcoatl."

Montezuma accepted Cortez as

though he were Deity, but the treachery of the Spaniards and his men soon

soon changed that, and warfare resulted. Poor, trusting Montezuma lost

both his throne and his life, but the

tradition remained.

A similar situation occurred when

Captain James Cook, the British explorer, came to Hawaii. Peculiarly

enough, he landed there when the natives were celebrating their Makahiki

Festival, which kept alive the tradition

of the White God among the Polynesians. Cook also was received as

Deity and taken to the sacred temple

of Lono. But his men were far less

than angelic, and their depredations

brought down the wrath of the natives

upon the entire landing party. In the

battle which ensued, Cook lost his

life.

The Great White God

But in reality, who was the Great

White God? It was not Captain Cook,

and certainly it was not Cortez. Who

was he?

When Jesus Christ ministered in

Palestine, he told the people there,

as is recorded in the tenth chapter of

the Gospel of John, that he had other

sheep, not of the fold of Palestine, but

elsewhere. ". . . them also I must

bring," he said, "and they shall hear

my voice; and there shall be one fold,

and one shepherd." (John 10:16.)

Jesus of Nazareth was this White

Godl After his resurrection in the Holy

Land he did in reality visit the early

Americans. How do we know?

Record of events

In the western hemisphere, as in

ancient Palestine, prophets ministered

among the people, giving them inspired

direction. As did the prophets in the

Holy Land, they also compiled records

of all important events.

They had predicted the coming of

Christ among them, and the people

fully expected him.

After the three days of darkness

which had afflicted them, the people

were gathered about their temple when

they heard a voice from heaven which

said:

"Behold my Beloved Son, in whom

I am well pleased, in whom I have

glorified my name—hear ye him."

This caused them to look into the

skies, and there they saw, descending

to the earth, a glorious Personage who

came and stood before them. And as

the ancient volume records it:

".

. . he was clothed in a white robe;

and he came down and stood in the

midst of them; and the eyes of the

whole multitude were turned upon

him, and they durst not open their

mouths, even one to another. . . .

"And it came to pass that he

stretched forth his hand and spake unto

the people, saying:

"Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom

the prophets testified shall come into

the world.

"And behold, I am the light and the

life of the world; and I have drunk

out of that bitter cup which the Father

hath given me, and have glorified the

Father in taking upon me the sins of

the world. . .

."

Then the Savior said to them:

"Arise and come forth unto me, that

ye may thrust your hands into my

side, and also that ye may feel the

prints in my hands and in my feet,

that ye may know that I am the God

of Israel, and the God of the whole

earth, and have been slain for the sins

of the world.

"And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands

into his side, and did feel the prints

of the nails in his hands and in his

feet; and this they did do, going forth

one by one until they had all gone

forth, and did see with their eyes and

did feel with their hands, and did know

of a surety and did bear record, that

it was he, of whom it was written by

the prophets, that should come.

"And when they had all gone forth

and had witnessed for themselves, they

did cry out with one accord, saying:

"Hosannah! Blessed be the name of

the Most High Godl And they did fall

down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him." (3 Ne. 11:7-11, 14-17.)

He taught them his true religion,

healed their sick, blessed their children, and organized his church on the

western hemisphere as he had done

in Palestine.

This is what gave rise to the tradition of the Indians and Polynesians.

And it has lived until now, being

transmitted from generation to generation.

But how may we be sure that it was

the Christ?

The Book of Mormon

As we mention, the many prophets

who lived in ancient America wrote

their histories and revelations as did

the prophets in Palestine. They made

many volumes. Finally these records

were abridged and compiled into one

by a prophet named Mormon, who

lived about 400 years after Christ, here

in America.

Because he was the compiler, the

book was called after him—the Book

of Mormon. It was brought forth in a

miraculous manner in our day and

identifies the Christ as the White God

of ancient times. That book is a volume of scripture as is the Bible. In

the twenty-ninth chapter of his writings, Isaiah predicted that in the latter

days this new volume of scripture

would appear, and he describes its coming forth in the manner in which the

Book of Mormon actually was given

to the world. This is not mere coincidence. It is a modern fulfillment of

Bible prophecy.

Fulfillment of prophecy

Isaiah said it would be a sealed book,

and it was.

He said the words of the book would

be delivered to a learned man who

would reject the record, and this was

true. Peculiarly enough, and this most

certainly helps to identify the book,

he said it would pass through the

hands of an unlearned man as it came

to world attention, and this is exactly

what happened.

By way of pointing to the time of its

publication, he said the book would

appear in the latter days as Palestine

became a fruitful field, and this was

so.

He predicted that even the deaf

would hear the words of the book, and

that through it the blind would see

out of darkness and the meek among

men would increase their joy in the

Lord. All of this came to pass.

And while this was taking place he

said the Almighty would perform a

marvelous work and a wonder during

a period of unbelief in the world, and

this too has been accomplished.

The Book of Mormon is the volume

to which Isaiah refers. It is scripture,

the holy writ of ancient America, published now for the enlightenment of

modern men.

It is a new witness to the divinity of

Christ and bears testimony that he is

truly and in fact the Son of God, the

Savior of the Christians, the Messiah

of the Jews, the White God of ancient

America, and the Redeemer of all mankind. And this too is our own testimony, and we bear it to you in the

sacred name of the Lord Jesus Christ.

Amen. o

