Elder Bruce R. McConkie

Of the First Council of the Seventy

• I desire very much to be directed by

the Spirit, because I know that when a

man speaks by the power of the Holy

Ghost, that holy being carries the word

of truth into the heart of every receptive soul.

Message of the gospel

We are servants of the Lord, and he

has sent us into the world to say to

every creature: "God has a message for

you," and then to deliver that message

in his name.

The message he has given us to proclaim in the ears of all who dwell

upon the earth is the gospel of the

Lord Jesus Christ. It is the plan of

salvation. It is that Christ hath abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. It

is a message of peace in this life and

eternal life in the world to come.

This message comprises the most

sobering and glorious truths of which

the human mind can conceive. It is a

voice of joy and gladness and thanksgiving; of glory and honor; of immortality and eternal life. And it is

destined to make of this earth, a heaven; and of man, a god.

Known to the apostles and prophets

of old, this glorious message was first

revealed in modern times to the

Prophet Joseph Smith and has since

been planted in the hearts of all the

true servants of the Lord by the revelation of Jesus Christ.

Proclaim saving truths

And so now, obedient to the divine

command, we proclaim the saving

truths of the gospel, not in the spirit

of contention or debate, but by way of

announcement, of exhortation, and of

testimony.

We are bold to say that there is a

God in heaven, an infinite and holy

being who is our Eternal Father and

whose offspring we are in the spirit;

that he ordained the plan of salvation whereby we, his spirit children,

might advance and progress and become like him; that he chose his Firstborn in the spirit to be the Savior and

Redeemer in his great plan of salvation; and that ever thereafter, to honor

its chief advocate and exponent, this

plan of salvation has been known as

the gospel of Jesus Christ.

Salvation in Christ

We testify that according to the

terms and conditions of God's eternal

plan, salvation is in Christ. He is the

Lamb slain from the foundation of the

world whose blood atoneth for the sins

of all those who believe in his name.

In the words of a holy angel who

ministered to a Book of Mormon

prophet: ". . . there shall be no other

name given nor any other way nor

means whereby salvation can come

unto the children of men, only in

and through the name of Christ, the

Lord Omnipotent." (Mosiah 3:17.)

Also: ". . . salvation was, and is, and

is to come, in and through the atoning

blood of Christ, the Lord Omnipotent."

(Mosiah 3:18.)

In pleading with men to believe in

Christ and be reconciled to God so as

to gain a remission of their sins, Nephi

said: ".

. . we talk of Christ, we rejoice

in Christ, we preach of Christ, we

prophesy of Christ, . . . [for] the right

way is to believe in Christ, and deny

him not; and Christ is the Holy One

of Israel; wherefore ye must bow down

before him, and worship him with all

your might, mind, and strength, and

your whole soul; and if ye do this ye

shall in nowise be cast out." (2 Ne.

25:26, 29.)

Extol his holy name

Thus we are bold to extol his holy

name, to proclaim that he is the Lord

Jehovah, the Great I Am, the Creator of

heaven and earth and all things which

in them are. And thus we testify that

he is the God of Israel, the promised

Messiah, the Only Begotten, the Son

of God.

Our proclamation is that he came

into the world to ransom men from the

temporal and spiritual death brought

upon them through the fall of Adam;

that he was born of Mary, inheriting

from her the power of mortality, which

is the power to die; that he is literally

the Son of God, in the same sense in

which all men are the offspring of

mortal fathers; and that he inherited

from his Father the power of immortality, which is the power to live.

Infinite atonement

We know that because he is the

Only Begotten in the flesh, he was able

to work out the infinite and eternal

atonement, whereby all men are raised

in immortality, which is redemption

from the temporal fall, while those

who believe and obey his laws are

raised also unto eternal life, which is

redemption from the spiritual fall.

Now we join with Peter and Paul

and his servants of old in announcing

that he is risen; that he broke the bands

of death and gained the victory over

the grave-—which thing they knew be

cause they saw him after the resurrection, ate with him, felt the nail marks

in his hands and feet, and thrust their

hands into the spear wound in his

side; and which thing we know because

he has returned to earth in our day,

manifesting himself anew to modern

prophets, and because the Holy Spirit

of God bears witness to us that he is

the risen Lord.

Testimony of ancient prophets

We accept without reservation the

testimony of the ancient prophets that

after their day there would be a falling

away from the faith once delivered to

the saints; as also their prophecies that

God, by angelic ministration, would

restore the everlasting gospel in the

last days and gather scattered Israel to

its standard.

And we now add to their testimony

our witness that God has in these last

days restored those truths by obedience

to which salvation may be won.

We are one with the ancients in our

belief in Christ. We accept him as the

Son of God, as the Savior and Redeemer of the world. We are grateful

that he has seen fit to add to the canon

of holy scripture, revealing anew, with

a plainness and perfection which surpass the record of old, those things

which men must do to be justified

through faith in him and to work out

their salvation with fear and trembling

before him.

We believe the witness born by the

Lord's servants of old and gain great

satisfaction from studying and pondering in our hearts the doctrines they

taught and the testimonies they bore

as these are recorded in the Bible.

But the fire of testimony which

burns in our hearts was not lighted at

ancient altars, nor is the knowledge

we have of the doctrines of salvation

based solely upon the partial and

fragmentary accounts of what God revealed to men in ancient days.

The ancient saints had the gospel,

which is the power that saves men, and

they recorded many of its truths in

their scriptures. The world today has

the record of part of what the saints

of old possessed.

The gospel restored again

But thanks be to God, we have the

gospel, with all its saving power, restored again. God has given us the

same doctrines, the same keys, and also

the same powers possessed by those of

old. All these things have been dispensed anew in this final, glorious

gospel dispensation.

I shall call your attention to three

heavenly visions which are part of this

restoration of the gospel

:

First: In the spring of 1820, Joseph

Smith sought wisdom from God. In the

providences of the Lord, he then received one of the most marvelous

visions of all time, which he recorded

in these words:

"... I saw a pillar of light exactly

over my head, above the brightness of

the sun, which descended gradually

until it fell upon me.

"... I saw two Personages, whose

brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air.

One of them spake unto me, calling

me by name and said, pointing to the

other

—

This is My Beloved Son. Hear

Him!" (Joseph Smith 2:16-17.)

Second: Nearly twelve years later,

Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon "beheld the glory of the Son, on the right

hand of the Father," together with a

great concourse of "holy angels," and

recorded their testimony in these

words:

"And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him,

this is the testimony, last of all, which

we give of him: That he lives!

"For we saw him, even on the right

hand of God; and we heard the voice

bearing record that he is the Only

Begotten of the Father." (D&C 76:20-

23.)

Third: In April 1836, Joseph Smith

and Oliver Cowdery saw the Lord of

heaven, of which this is the scriptural

account:

"The veil was taken from our minds,

and the eyes of our understanding

were opened.

"We saw the Lord standing upon

the breastwork of the pulpit, before us;

and under his feet was a paved work

of pure gold, in color like amber.

"His eyes were as a flame of fire;

the hair of his head was white like the

pure snow; his countenance shone

above the brightness of the sun; and

his voice was as the sound of the rushing of great waters, even the voice of

Jehovah, saying:

"I am the first and the last; I am

he who liveth, I am he who was slain;

I am your advocate with the Father."

(D&C 110:1-4.)

Visions real and true

Now, as servants of the Lord, we announce and testify that these three

visions were as real and true as any

ever received by any prophet in any

age.

There is no room for contention or

debate. We are not quoting the Bible

to prove what happened any more than

Peter turned to the writings of Isaiah

to prove he had felt the nail marks in

the hands and feet of the risen Lord.

We are saying with words of soberness

that men in our day have heard the

voice of God and seen the visions of

eternity, and that the power of God

whereby salvation comes is once more

held by living apostles and prophets.

And all men everywhere have exactly

the same obligation to heed and believe our testimony as men had in

former days to accept the witness of

the prophets of old.

Knowledge by personal revelation

The issue in Peter's day was: Did

Christ rise from the dead? If so, he

was the Son of God, and the religion of

the ancient saints had saving power.

To prove their message, the Lord's

ancient servants reasoned out of the

scriptures and bore testimony of what

they knew by personal revelation.

The issue today is: Was Joseph

Smith called of God? If so, the religion

of the Latter-day Saints has saving

power. And to prove our message, like

our brethren of old, we reason out of

the scriptures and bear testimony of

what we know by personal revelation.

And so we testify that the Holy

Ghost certifies to us that Jesus Christ

is the Son of the living God; that

Joseph Smith is the great latter-day

prophet through whom the knowledge

of Christ and of salvation was restored;

and that this Church of Jesus Christ of

Latter-day Saints is in very deed the

kingdom of God on earth, the one

place where men may come to find

peace in this life and become inheritors

of eternal glory in the life to come.

We are servants of the Lord, and he

has commanded us to proclaim his

gospel message to all men. And of that

message we now testify that as our

Lord and our God liveth, it is true. In

the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.

Amen. O

