Elder William H. Bennett

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve

My brothers and sisters: It is a choice

and wonderful experience to be called

to be an Assistant to the Council of the

Twelve, but it is also a very humbling

experience. I feel especially humble

this afternoon as I stand before you for

the first time as a General Authority

and contemplate the sacredness and the

importance of this great call. I ask for

an interest in your faith and prayers,

not just here today but on a continuous

basis, that I might be able to serve in

the way the Lord would like me to

serve.

I am grateful for this call because I

love the Lord, and I have found great

joy and satisfaction in being in his

service, in helping to build the kingdom

of God here upon the earth, and in trying to serve my fellowmen.

Gratitude for testimony

I know that God lives; that Jesus

Christ is his Son, the Redeemer of the

world; that Joseph Smith was indeed a

true prophet of God, through whom the

gospel of Jesus Christ was restored in

these the last days and through whom

the Church of Jesus Christ was reestablished. I know that President

Joseph Fielding Smith is a true prophet

of God, and I sustain him and all the

other brethren with all my heart.

How grateful I am for this testimony,

and how grateful I am to those who

helped me gain it early in life, and who

have helped me strengthen it with the

passage of time.

Tribute to family

I should like to pay tribute today to

my ancestors who accepted the gospel,

joined the Church, and gave me a rich

heritage, and to my parents and brothers and sisters, all of whom taught me

the gospel by example. My mother was

one of the sweetest women who ever

lived, and my father was truly a noble

man. It has been said that an honest

man is the noblest work of God. That's

the kind of man my father was. Those

of you who knew him and had dealings

with him know that I speak the truth.

I married rather late in life. The

Lord went the extra mile with me and

gave me a wonderful person to be my

wife and blessed our home with six

lovely children. I love them dearly,

and they are all supporting me wholeheartedly, without reservations, in this

new assignment.

Let me take a moment to share a

choice experience we had together on

Father's Day. It happened in a Sunday

School service. I didn't know anything

about what was planned. At the appropriate time the chorister asked my

family members to come forward. Then

my wife and five daughters sang "We

Ever Pray for Thee, Our Father

Dear." They substituted the word

Father, in place of the word prophet.

in the song for this occasion and sang

it that way. Then my only son recited the poem "I Follow a Noble

Father." My heart was touched and

so were the hearts of all others who

were there. I am grateful for my wonderful family.

Appreciation for associates

I should like to say thanks to all you

wonderful people in Alberta, Canada,

who taught me in my early youth, in

Sunday School, Primary, and MIA;

to my colleagues and students at Utah

State University; to people throughout

the state of Utah with whom I have

worked over the years; and to President

Glen Taggart, president of Utah State

University, who has been very helpful and understanding during the

transition period between my assignment at Utah State University and my

assignment with the Church.

Inspirational leaders

Four others to whom I am deeply

indebted are President Hugh B. Brown,

who was my stake president in the

Lethbridge Stake when I was a boy;

Asael E. Palmer, a counselor to Presi-

dent Brown at that time, who later

became president of the Lethbridge

Stake, where he served for many years;

my uncle, Archibald F. Bennett, one of

the great teachers of the Church, who

lived about as close to his Father in

heaven as any man I know; and my

Scoutmaster, Vernon Bigelow. These

men had the ability to reach me when

I lacked confidence in myself as a boy.

They helped me set worthwhile goals

and objectives and to gain a vision of

the importance of the gospel in my life

and in the scheme of things. I just

want to say I will be eternally grateful

to these men for what they did for me

and are still doing.

Experience with President Brown

Let me take a moment to share a

choice experience that I had with President Brown. I have always been interested in athletics. One day when

I was about 15 years of age, I was taking part in the high jump in a tri-stake

MIA track meet. We had reached the

height where most of the jumpers were

eliminated; there were just two of us

still in there. I knocked the bar off

twice and had one jump remaining.

President Brown, who was watching

the event, came over, put his arm on

my shoulder, and said, "Young man,

you can clear that bar; I know you can.

I have been watching you. You are

not over the bar when you are at the

highest point. If you adjust your takeoff just a bit, you will clear that bar,

young man. I know you will!"

Something happened to me inside.

It seemed as though new strength had

come into my body from President

Brown. I went up to that bar with

complete assurance that I could clear

it and I did. I shall never forget that

experience.

In the days of my youth the Lord

saw fit to bless me with an inferiority

complex. I say "blessed" because in

wrestling with this problem I learned

the meaning of humility. I learned

what it meant to get close to my Father

in heaven through prayer on an almost

continuous basis. I learned that in

problems we find our challenges. In

those challenges lie opportunities. If

we can just identify those opportunities

and capitalize on them, growth, progress, and success will result. I learned

that strength comes from facing up to

problems squarely and realistically, not

from disregarding them or avoiding

them.

World beset by problems

The world today is beset by many

problems, and mention has been made

of this in various ways during this

conference. When man unaided tries

to solve these problems, he frequently

finds that new problems arise, and

there is confusion, more confusion, contradictions, strife, and contention. Finally, man may resort to war to try to

solve his difficulties. But war does not

solve difficulties. This was brought

forcibly to my mind recently when I

was in Europe participating in a seminar for mission presidents and their

wives. The seminar was held in Brussels, Belgium, just a few miles from

Waterloo, where the forces of the Duke

of Wellington engaged the forces of

Napoleon in a great battle, back in

about 1815. And it was just a few

miles from Flanders Field and not very

far from Dunkirk, where other battles

and fighting took place at different

times in the history of the world.

Conflict between good and evil

And now war is with us again, and

many people are deeply troubled and

confused. But I should like to say that

the great battles of the world are

not fought on the battlefields. They are

fought in the hearts and in the minds

of men and women everywhere, as they

wrestle with their problems, try to meet

the difficulties and issues that confront

them, exercise their free agency, and

make choices. The forces of evil and

the forces of righteousness are both trying to influence the decisions, and

there is conflict in the hearts and minds

of men everywhere. If the forces of

righteousness triumph universally, there

will be love, harmony, and peace on

earth. If the forces of evil dominate,

there will be outward expressions that

lead to war and destruction.

Gospel brings peace

The gospel of Jesus Christ can resolve those inner conflicts and bring

inner peace and outer peace as well.

The gospel of Jesus Christ is the most

valuable, the most needed message in

the world today. It is the answer to the

problems that grow out of man's

selfishness and greed, where such a

high percentage of the problems arise.

The gospel teaches us to build rather

than to destroy, to help people to give

of themselves in unselfish service to

others rather than being on the receiving end of things most of the time.

Over the years men and women have

learned to appreciate the importance

of free agency. But all too frequently

they overlook the fact that along with

free agency there must be responsibility

and accountability. One has his free

agency to determine what he will do

and what he will not do, but he does

not have his free agency to determine

the consequences, because laws operate.

Obedience to law

The gospel teaches the importance of

obedience to law. President Lee referred to that so beautifully this

morning when he talked about the

astronauts. Let me make a further application. You will remember that the

astronauts on one of the missions had

an outward trip and a return trip. On

the outward trip their goal was the

moon. On the return trip their goal

was the earth, their home base. They

reached their goals both going and

coming because they themselves, the

engines and the instruments under

their control, and those at mission

control at home base were able to operate in accordance with law.

Do you remember what happened

on the Apollo 13 mission that Brother

Lee referred to? As they made their return trip they were almost home when

they found out that they were off course

a bit. They had to make a correction.

To do so, they had to fire their engine.

If that engine hadn't fired, the correction could not have been made; they

would have missed the earth by eighty

miles, and we wouldn't have been able

to bring them back. But the engine

did fire, the correction was made, and

they returned to earth safe and sound.

Is there not an important lesson there

for us? Is it not true that we, too, had

an outward trip when we left our

Father in heaven in the spirit world

and came to earth? Are we not now

walking around on our earth, which

might be likened to the astronaut's

moon? And is it not true that whether

or not we will be able sometime in

the future to return to our Father in

heaven, our home base, will be dependent on our willingness and our

ability to observe the laws and keep the

commandments that pertain thereto?

And is it not true that the Lord has

provided us with a way through repentance for making a correction to

put us back on course when we have

strayed because of sin?

The gospel of Jesus Christ is the answer to all problems. However, men

and women everywhere must be doers

of the word, and not hearers only, if

they would have peace within themselves and peace in the world and

would find joy and happiness in this

life and in the life to come. This is our

great and important test. May we be

equal to it, I humbly pray, in the name

of Jesus Christ. Amen. O

