President Harold B. Lee

First Counselor in the First Presidency and President of the Council of the Twelve

m Before we announce President Smith

as the next and concluding speaker of

the conference, it seems appropriate to

say one or two things.

The President of the Church

When the Church was first organized, in fact, the day on which it was

organized, the Lord was speaking to the

Church. He didn't mean just the six

members that were then the constituted number of the Church: he was

speaking about the President of the

Church, who was the Prophet Joseph

Smith at that time. And this is what

he said:

"Wherefore, meaning the church,

thou shalt give heed unto all his words

[the President's words] and commandments which he shall give unto you as

he receiveth them, walking in all holiness before me;

"For his word ye shall receive, as if

from mine own mouth, in all patience

and faith.

"For by doing these things the gates

of hell shall not prevail against you;

yea, and the Lord God will disperse the

powers of darkness from before you,

and cause the heavens to shake for your

good, and his name's glory." (D&C

21:4-6.)

Tight places

We have some tight places to go

before the Lord is through with this

church and the world in this dispensation, which is the last dispensation,

which shall usher in the coming of the

Lord. The gospel was restored to prepare a people ready to receive him. The

power of Satan will increase; we see

it in evidence on every hand. There

will be inroads within the Church.

There will be, as President Tanner has

said, "Hypocrites, those professing, but

secretly are full of dead men's bones."

We will see those who profess membership but secretly are plotting and trying

to lead people not to follow the leadership that the Lord has set up to preside in this church.

The only safety

Now the only safety we have as

members of this church is to do exactly

what the Lord said to the Church in

that day when the Church was organized. We must learn to give heed to

the words and commandments that the

Lord shall give through his prophet,

"as he receiveth them, walking in all

holiness before me; ... as if from mine

own mouth, in all patience and faith."

(D&C 21:4-5.) There will be some

things that take patience and faith.

You may not like what comes from

the authority of the Church. It may

contradict your political views. It

may contradict your social views. It may

interfere with some of your social life.

But if you listen to these things, as if

from the mouth of the Lord himself,

with patience and faith, the promise is

that "the gates of hell shall not prevail

against you; yea, and the Lord God

will disperse the powers of darkness

from before you, and cause the heavens

to shake for your good, and his name's

glory." (D&C 21:6.)

Activities of President Smith

Now we have a President of the

Church who has grown to great years.

Since he was installed as President six

months ago, he has been down in

Mexico with Sister Smith. He has

been to the Arizona Temple, where he

gave the sealing keys to a new temple

presidency. He has been in the Hawaiian Islands, where he participated

in an anniversary of the Church College of Hawaii, and some of the early

events in the history of that place.

In connection with this conference,

there has been an intense assignment

to the President of the Church.

A week ago Thursday, all the General Authorities met in an upper room

of the temple fasting and praying,

trying to prepare themselves spiritually for this conference. I believe we

witnessed the outpouring of the Spirit, which is an evidence of the

Lord's answer to the prayers that were

offered at that time. President Smith

addressed the General Authorities. He

participated in the Relief Society conference and spoke to the sisters. He

spoke at the Sunday School conference.

He addressed this conference in the first

session. He addressed the priesthood

session, and he will address this session.

Role of counselors

As I thought of the role of President

Tanner and myself as his counselors,

I thought of a circumstance in the life

of Moses, when the enemies of the

church in that day were just as they

are in this day. They were threatening

to overcome and tear down and to stop

the work of the church. As Moses sat

upon a hill and raised the rod of his

authority, or the keys of his priesthood,

Israel prevailed over their enemies; but

as the day wore on, his hands became

heavy and began to droop at his side.

And so they held up his hands so they

would not be weakened and the rod

would not be lowered. He would be

sustained so that the enemies of the

church would not prevail over the

saints of the Most High God. (See

Exod. 17:8-12.)

Sustaining the President

I think that is the role that President Tanner and I have to fulfill. The

hands of President Smith may grow

weary. They may tend to droop at

times because of his heavy responsibilities; but as we uphold his hands,

and as we lead under his direction, by

his side, the gates of hell will not

prevail against you and against Israel.

Your safety and ours depends upon

whether or not we follow the ones

whom the Lord has placed to preside

over his church. He knows whom he

wants to preside over this church, and

he will make no mistake. The Lord

doesn't do things by accident. He has

never done anything accidentally. And

I think the scientists and all the philosophers in the world have never discovered or learned anything that God

didn't already know. His revelations

are more powerful, more meaningful,

and have more substance than all the

secular learning in the world.

Let's keep our eye on the President

of the Church and uphold his hands

as President Tanner and I will continue to do.

President Smith, we honor and sustain you in that high place because the

Lord has put you there. It will now be

our delight, our beloved President, to

give you an opportunity to leave us

your blessing as we conclude this great

conference. Q

