President N. Eldon Tanner

Second Counselor in the First Presidency

• President Smith has asked me to

speak to you briefly. It is always a

privilege to me and an inspiration to

stand before the priesthood and speak

to them. It is also a great responsibility.

President Smith has directed his

remarks almost entirely to the members of the Melchizedek Priesthood. I

should like to address mine to a group

of the finest young men in all the

world, the holders of the Aaronic or

Lesser Priesthood.

I should like to address my remarks

to my grandsons. We have in our

family five sons-in-law who hold the

Melchizedek Priesthood, four grandsons

who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood,

six grandsons who hold the Aaronic

Priesthood, and eight grandsons who

are preparing themselves to hold the

priesthood. I should like to address my

remarks to them tonight.

Importance of Aaronic Priesthood

No greater responsibility can be given

to a young man than to hold the priesthood of God, which is the power of

God delegated to him to act in his

name in the office which he holds, and

to prepare himself for the Melchizedek

Priesthood, and to enjoy the blessings

of one who is faithful in the priesthood.

The Aaronic Priesthood is so important that the Lord saw fit to send John

the Baptist to Joseph Smith and Oliver

Cowdery to bestow it upon them, and

in these words was it done:

"Upon you my fellow servants, in the

name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of

the ministering of angels, and of the

gospel of repentance, and of baptism by

immersion for the remission of sins;

and this shall never be taken again

from the earth, until the sons of Levi

do offer again an offering unto the

Lord in righteousness." (D&C 13.)

A privilege and opportunity

What a tremendous privilege, opportunity, and responsibility to hold the

priesthood! It is just as binding on us

as the covenant which President Smith

read to the Melchizedek Priesthood,

because the covenant applies to both

priesthoods to the extent that we hold

those priesthoods, and it will determine

our status.

If we will prove ourselves as we

are tried and tested, we will be given

the opportunity to hold this Melchizedek Priesthood. It is somewhat like

going from elementary school to

high school and from high school to

college; also going from mortal life

to eternal life. We will be blessed

according to the way we live. And

may it be said of us, "Well done,

thou good and faithful servant: thou

hast been faithful over a few things, I

will make thee ruler over many things:

enter thou into the joy of thy lord."

(Matt. 25:21.)

How fortunate we are to hold the

priesthood. If you would stop and

think today that of every 1,000 young

men of your age in the world, one man

holds the priesthood; with this hall full

of young men of Aaronic Priesthood age

tonight, there would be only eight

holding the Aaronic Priesthood. What

a tremendous privilege, opportunity,

blessing, and responsibility.

Live to enjoy blessings

How important it is to live to enjoy

the Spirit and blessings of the Lord,

and the respect and confidence of parents, friends, and church leaders, and

the Lord himself, particularly so you

can look them in the face with a clear

conscience, and also yourself in the

mirror, and know that you have been

living as you should.

Temptations of Satan

The Lord, speaking of Satan when

he was cast out, said:

"And he became Satan, yea, even the

devil, the father of all lies, to deceive

and to blind men, and to lead them

captive at his will, even as many as

would not hearken unto my voice."

(Moses 4:4.)

He tries to tempt every one of us,

every one from a deacon to Christ himself. You remember how he tried to

tempt Christ. He chooses emissaries,

those who follow him and those who

are too weak to do what is right. These

emissaries will try to point out the

weaknesses in an individual, in the

leaders of the Church, in the organizations, and every place they can find

any weakness at any time, and they

will be saying, "Don't be a coward;

don't be a sissy; come on."

I should like to say to you young men

tonight that not one young man who is

living according to the teachings of the

gospel and honoring his priesthood

would ever say that to you.

Thank the Lord that he was strong

enough to say to Satan, "Get thee behind me, Satan," and I hope we will

be able never to be afraid, as one in

one thousand in this world, to honor

our priesthood. Those who succumb

to temptation are always defeated and

miserable, unless they repent.

Self-disciplined youth

Vice-President Spiro Agnew, when

he was speaking to us the other day

as he visited with the First Presidency

of the Church, said that one thing that

appealed to him about our youth, as he

was on the BYU campus, is that they

are well self-disciplined; and they

seemed to be doing their own thing,

which was doing what they should be

doing, and were happy in doing it.

No happiness in wrongdoing

I would like you young men to know

that those who are frustrated, who are

complaining, who are not living as

they should, are not happy. They are

frustrated. There is no happiness in

wrongdoing. They have their problems, and they are not trying to accomplish. Of course I feel sorry for them

because they do not know as you know

that all of us are spirit children of God.

They do not know that God really

lives, that Jesus is the Christ; that

through his birth, death, and resurrection we may all be resurrected; and

that this life is not the end but just the

beginning of eternal life.

May we all appreciate this and do

our best wherever we are to live worthy

of it so that we can look into the mirror

and see ourselves and say, "Thank the

Lord I was strong enough to overcome,

to resist." To you who have weakened in any way, who have taken a

cigarette, or anything of the kind, just

quit it tonight and be happy. You will

be happy. The Lord will bless you.

People will respect you, and you will

be successful, and you will be doing

your duty in helping to bring about the

immortality and eternal life of man.

May we do this, I humbly pray, in

the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. O

President N. Eldon Tanner

Elder Neal A. Maxwell, Commissioner of the Church Educational System, will now address us.

