Elder Howard W. Hunter

Of the Council of the Twelve

• We live in an interesting period of

the history of mankind. The slow pace

of man's progress from the beginning

gradually commenced to accelerate and

gain speed. Today we find advancement moving at such increased momentum that we are often frightened

by the thoughts of the future. Man

takes pride in the rapid strides of science that have created conveniences for

his everyday living. His health has

been improved by the progress of medicine, and his life-span has been extended. Sweeping reforms in many

areas of society have enhanced his

well-being. Business and industry are

moving forward at a pace never before

known, and this generation has the

highest standard of living ever enjoyed

by man. We are proud to be living in

a modern world of achievement.

Progress brings concern

Will all of this spiraling progress be

good for man in the years that lie

ahead? Will it be beneficial in every

respect to our children and grandchildren? We would agree, no doubt,

that many things give us concern.

What of the future of the family and

home life, which in past generations

have been great stabilizing forces in

society? What of the solidarity of

community and national life? What of

the future of our economy, as the consequence of inflation and increased

debt? What of the modern course of

deterioration of morality and its effect

upon individuals, families, nations, and

the world? We are forced to admit

that what we term as progress brings

with it many consequences of serious

concern.

We are entering into, or going

through, a period of history in which

so-called modern thought is taking

precedence in the minds of many persons who classify themselves as advocates of a modern generation. The

more extreme of these lean toward

free thinking and free action without

assuming the responsibility men owe

to fellowmen. Where will we be led

if we follow those who advocate freedom of use of drugs and freedom of

morality? What will be the result of

universal free love, abortions at will,

homosexuality, or legalized pornography?

Modern criticism

What of spiritual values and the religious ideals of past generations,

which have been the great stabilizing

influence on society? Modern thinkers

claim these have been the great deterrents to man in the freedoms he now

seeks. There is a great effort on the

part of so-called modernists to change

religious beliefs and teachings of the

past to conform to modern thought and

critical research. They de-emphasize

the teachings of the Bible by modern

critical methods and deny that scripture is inspired. The modernist teaches

that Christ is not the Son of God. He

denies the doctrine of the atoning sacrifice by which all men may be saved.

He denies the fact of the resurrection of

the Savior of the world and relegates

him to the status of a teacher of ethics.

Where, then, is hope? What has become of faith?

The Old Testament unfolds the

story of the creation of the earth and

man by God. Should we now disregard this account and modernize he

creation according to the theories of

the modernists? Can we say there was

no Garden of Eden or an Adam and

Eve? Because modernists now declare

the story of the flood is unreasonable

and impossible, should we disbelieve

the account of Noah and the flood as

related in the Old Testament?

Confirmation by the Master

Let us examine what the Master said

when the disciples came to him as he

sat on the Mount of Olives. They

asked him to tell them of the time of

his coming and of the end of the

world. Jesus answered: "But of that

day and hour knoweth no man, no, not

the angels of heaven, but my Father

only.

"But as the days of Noe were, so

shall also the coming of the Son of

man be.

"For as in the days that were before

the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage,

until the day that Noe entered into the

ark,

"And knew not until the flood came,

and took them all away; so shall also

the coming of the Son of man be."

(Matt. 24:36-39.)

In this statement the Master confirmed the story of the flood without

modernizing it. Can we accept some of

the statements of the Lord as being

true and at the same time reject others

as being false?

When Martha heard that Jesus was

coming, she went out to meet him

and they discussed the matter of the

death of her brother and the resurrection. "Jesus said unto her, I am the

resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead,

yet shall he live." (John 11:25.)

Both of these statements, the one regarding Noah and the fact of the flood

and the one in which he declared himself to be the resurrection and the life,

were made by the Lord. How can we

believe one and not the other? How

can we modernize the story of the

flood or refer to it as a myth and yet

cling to the truth of the other? How

can we modernize the Bible and have

it be a guiding light to us and a vital

influence in our beliefs?

Belief in eternal principles

There are those who declare it is

old-fashioned to believe in the Bible.

Is it old-fashioned to believe in God,

in Jesus Christ, the Son of the Living

God? Is it old-fashioned to believe in

his atoning sacrifice and the resurrection? If it is, I declare myself to be

old-fashioned and the Church is oldfashioned. In great simplicity the

Master taught the principles of life

eternal and lessons that bring happiness to those with the faith to believe.

It doesn't seem reasonable to assume

the necessity of modernizing these

teachings of the Master. His message

concerned principles that are eternal.

Following these principles, millions of

persons have found rich religious experiences in their lives. People of

today's world are seeking a meaningful

purpose in life, and thousands are

seeking a religious experience that is

meaningful. Can such an experience

be found in meditation only, or by a

seance? Can a meaningful experience

be found in trips with drugs or in loveins? Such an attempt is to go through

the back, the side door, or over the

wall, not through the way pointed out

by the Lord.

Door into the sheepfold

When the Lord spoke to the Pharisees at the Feast of the Tabernacles,

he used these words: "Verily, verily, I

say unto you, He that entereth not by

the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a

thief and a robber.

"Then said Jesus unto them again,

Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the

door of the sheep." (John 10:1, 7.)

A meaningful religious experience

can come in no other way than by that

door, through the Lord Jesus Christ.

Sign-seekers

There have always been those who

wanted a sign before they would believe. During his ministry the Master

was asked on many occasions for a

sign.

"The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, and tempting desired him

that he would shew them a sign from

heaven.

"He answered and said unto them,

When it is evening, ye say, It will be

fair weather: for the sky is red.

"And in the morning, It will be foul

weather to day: for the sky is red and

lowring. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye

not discern the signs of the times?

"A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. . .

." (Matt.

16:1-4.)

Perhaps it was with them, as with

many today, truth is not recognized as

truth unless accompanied by the sensational. What would have been accomplished had the Lord called down

thunder and lightning, or plucked a

star from the sky, or divided the water

to satisfy the curiosity of men? They

would probably have said it was the

work of the devil, or their eyes deceived

them.

Great promises of blessings

Signs are evident to the faithful.

Sick persons are healed; prayers are answered; changes are wrought in the

lives of those who believe, accept, and

live the commandments. We prove

Christ by living the principles of his

gospel. He made great promises of

blessings to those who live the commandments: "I, the Lord, am bound

when ye do what I say; but when ye

do not what I say, ye have no promise."

(D&C 82:10.) Many of the commandments are restrictive, but reason dictates

they are for man's good. In addition to

the restrictive commandments are the

positive admonitions. The two great

imperatives are to love God and love

one's fellowmen.

"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God

with all thy heart, and with all thy

soul, and with all thy mind.

"This is the first and great commandment.

"And the second is like unto it, Thou

shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

"On these two commandments hang

all the law and the prophets." (Matt.

22:37-40.)

Love of God and neighbor

What greater laws could be given

to bring peace, prosperity, and progress

to man if he will faithfully live the

commandments to love?

In this time of rapid change, we

can maintain an equilibrium if we preserve a belief in God and a love for

him, but we cannot love God unless

we love his children also. These are

our neighbors, and true love of them

knows no class or culture, race, color,

or creed.

The members of The Church of

Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints open

their arms to neighbors everywhere.

The restored Church of Christ assumes its charge and responsibility to

take the gospel of Jesus Christ in love

to its neighbors over the world and

endeavors to help those who receive

the gospel to live the teachings of the

Master.

Return to Christ

In this world of confusion and rushing, temporal progress, we need to

return to the simplicity of Christ. We

need to love, honor, and worship him.

To acquire spirituality and have its

influence in our lives, we cannot become confused and misdirected by the

twisted teachings of the modernist. We

need to study the simple fundamentals

of the truths taught by the Master and

eliminate the controversial. Our faith

in God needs to be real and not speculative. The restored gospel of Jesus

Christ can be a dynamic, moving in-

lluence, and true acceptance gives us

a meaningful, religious experience. One

of the great strengths of the Mormon

religion is this translation of belief

into daily thinking and conduct. This

replaces turmoil and confusion with

peace and tranquility.

The Church stands firmly against

relaxation or change in moral issues

and opposes the so-called new morality.

Spiritual values cannot be set aside,

notwithstanding modernists who would

tear them down. We can be modern

without giving way to the influence of

the modernist. If it is old-fashioned to

believe in the Bible, we should thank

God for the privilege of being oldfashioned.

Personal conviction

Permit me to conclude with my personal conviction and testimony. I know

God lives, the same God described in

the Old and the New Testaments. I

know Jesus Christ is his Son. He gave

his life in the great atoning sacrifice

whereby he became my Savior, your

Savior, and the Savior of all mankind.

I also know there is a prophet of God

on the earth today who speaks the

mind and will of the Lord to his children in the same manner that prophets

have spoken to God's children in all

ages of the past. May the Lord give

us the capacity to understand his

teachings and the strength to follow

with conviction and steadfastness, I

pray in the name of Jesus Christ.

Amen. O

