Bishop Robert L. Simpson

Of the Presiding Bishopric

• My dear brethren of the priesthood,

I feel great strength in your presence,

and I am grateful to my Heavenly

Father for the great discourse of our

prophet, President Joseph Fielding

Smith.

Listen well to prophet

One of the great bits of advice that

I have received in my life came during

my teenage years when a great bishop,

just before the President of the Church

was going to visit our area, told a

group of us "when a prophet of God

speaks, you listen well." I have tried

to do that all of my life. I am grateful

for that advice.

I have been thrilled with the meetings of this conference, especially this

morning when I realized that that session was going to be telecast throughout the Midwest and the eastern

states. And my prayer tonight when I

retire will be "Heavenly Father, in that

potential audience of millions, I pray

that many will be led to their television

sets to hear what I heard this morning." I know that many will be led

to the truth as they so do.

Lessons from football game

Speaking of television, last Monday

night my high-school-age son persuaded me to sit down and watch the

second half of a football game. I have

always made it a policy that no sacrifice is too great for my boy. So we sat

down and watched football. While

watching this game, some facts became

very apparent. In fact, it had gospel

application and priesthood application.

I noticed, for example, that there

were no shortcuts to the goal line. It

was a hundred yards in both directions.

I also noticed that the team that

seemed to have had the most practice,

that did the best planning, that executed their plays the best, and that

had the best team attitude was the

team that made the most points.

I also noticed that when team members cooperated and helped one another, the team made the most yardage.

It was also obvious that when someone broke the rules, there was always

a penalty imposed. It sounds a lot

like life, doesn't it? In talking about

this to my boy, he said, "Fifteen yards

is nothing; but, Dad, when you ground

me for three days, that is too much."

We also noticed that no one was

allowed to make up his own rules as

the game progressed. They all lost

their free agency to do that when they

agreed to join the team and play according to the established rules.

And last but not least, I noticed

when it was all over, the winning team

was a lot happier than the team that

lost.

Now brethren, we believe that "men

are, that they might have joy"; and

joy can best come as we obtain victory

in the game of life, played according

to the only acceptable rules—those set

down by our Heavenly Father.

Speaking of happiness, achieving victory, and finding the right tools for

reentering the presence of our Heavenly Father, may I use as a springboard

for my remarks four or five of the

most frequently asked questions and

comments from youth as they come to

members of the Presiding Bishopric.

Specific goals

Comment No. 1 from a deacon

right here in Salt Lake City: "This new

achievement program is OK, but why

not let us do our own thing about

church? Some of us don't like to be

tied down to specific goals and commitments."

May I say first of all, you young

men of the Aaronic Priesthood are not

ordinary young men. Each of you has

made a sacred covenant in the waters

of baptism. Each of you has been given

that rare privilege of the Holy Ghost

as a constant companion. Each of you

has received the sacred covenant of his

holy priesthood about which President

Smith spoke so eloquently here tonight. Each of you has access to the

truth. Yes, each of you is a member

of the world's greatest brotherhood, the

priesthood, with Goo. the Father and

his Son Jesus Christ at the head.

With all of these advantages, what

are we going to do about it? The scriptures tell us that where much is given,

much is expected. Sometimes an eternal

goal can seem rather remote in the

mind of a teenage boy. To travel from

where you are to where you would like

to be seems overwhelming and almost

impossible. The secret is to live the

best you know how just one day at a

time, and if the day seems too long,

we should break it down into hours or

even minutes. This is exactly what a

kind and loving Heavenly Father had

in mind as he planted in the minds

of the brethren the new personal

achievement program for the Aaronic

Priesthood.

Achievement journal

Each of you is now being introduced

to an achievement journal that, in my

opinion, is one of the greatest tools ever

developed to prepare a young man for

the Melchizedek Priesthood. The

Aaronic Priesthood is a preparatory

priesthood, preparatory for only one

thing, the Melchizedek Priesthood. It

is the Melchizedek Priesthood that will

show us the way to temple blessings

and to other great horizons that are not

visible nor understood by many who

are starting out.

No longer will the bishop spend two

or three minutes asking a few routine

questions pertaining to personal worthiness. Each of you young men will have

as much time as may be required with

the bishop to talk just about you and

about your personal problems, about

your hopes and about your ambitions,

and about your goals for the coming

year. All this is made possible by

starting your achievement year on or

near your birthday. By this process,

not more than one or two young men

a week will be on the bishop's agenda,

thus giving ample opportunity and time

to get to know one another better and

to set goals for the next year that will

be meaningful. Your goals will perhaps be unlike any other set of goals

in the entire Church. They will be

customized just for you according to

your needs, not just on meeting attendance alone but other Churchrelated goals such as mission preparation, missionary activity, seminary and

institute training, perhaps even welfare

and genealogical work in terms of your

interest and understanding.

There will be personal goals that

might well touch on your day-to-day

and week-to-week planning, your financial program (such as it might be),

personal prayer habits, a program for

keeping your body well and strong,

plus other ideas for self-improvement,

including goals on being a better

neighbor, a better member of your

community; yes, even some academic

or vocational goals.

Conservative dress and manner

Let's hear another question. A priest

in Idaho wants to know, "What does

the length of my hair have to do with

passing or blessing the sacrament?"

Lately, this has been the most popular

question.

For good reason, the First Presidency

have not stipulated the number of

inches. I would feel bad if the good

Navajo brother could not administer at

the sacrament table because his hair is

long enough to be braided. Long hair

is the custom of his people. He is not

out of place where he serves.

Would you young men here tonight

believe skirts as a dress standard for

deacons? I have seen them in Samoa

as our young men pass the sacrament.

The accepted attire of their community is the lavalava. I am sure our

Samoan brethren hope we never have

a rule against deacons' wearing skirts.

Our objective should be grooming

appropriate to the area, and in all cases

cleanliness.

Anything that symbolizes either rebellion or nonconformity to the local

community standard will likely be a

distraction to those partaking of the

Lord's Supper. Conservative dress and

manner have always been the keynote

of priesthood service. If there is a

probability that the members you serve

are thinking more about your nonstandard appearance than about the

atoning sacrifice of the Savior, then

you had better take a long, hard look

at yourself before next Sunday. As we

consider these matters, I speak not only

to the Aaronic Priesthood but also to

those who preside in the Melchizedek

Priesthood.

How a testimony comes

Here is an interesting comment from

a priest: "If I could just know for

sure—by some special manifestation

—

then I would devote my life to the

work."

A miracle in the heavens tonight

could be simply performed by our

Heavenly Father, who created heaven

and earth, but I am grateful that such

is not part of his plan. Firm and lasting testimonies are not created in such

a manner. As the Lord has said, ".

. .

line upon line, precept upon precept.

. .

." (D&C 98:12.) He further stated:

"My doctrine is not mine, but his that

sent me. If any man will do his will,

he shall know of the doctrine, whether

it be of God, or whether I speak of

myself." (John 7:16-17.)

Many of us had similar thoughts as

we became impatient along the way,

particularly during our teenage years.

Even President David O. McKay has

told us about kneeling by a serviceberry bush as a boy in Huntsville to

find out once and for all about the

truth of the work. May I quote President McKay as he tells of that occasion:

"I knelt down and with all the fervor

of my heart poured out my soul to

God and asked him for a testimony of

this gospel. I had in mind that there

would be some manifestation; that I

should receive some transformation that

would leave me absolutely without

doubt.

"I got up, mounted my horse, and

as he started over the trail, I remember

rather introspectively searching myself

and involuntarily shaking my head,

saying to myself, 'No, sir, there is no

change; I am just the same boy I was

before I knelt down.' The anticipated

manifestation had not come. . . .

"However, it did come, but not in

the way I had anticipated. Even the

manifestation of God's power and the

presence of his angels came; but when

it did come, it was simply a confirmation, it was not a testimony." (Treasures of Life, [Deseret Book Company,

1962], pp. 229-30.)

Young men, you, too, will have many

remarkable revelations and manifestations as a confirmation of the testimony

that you earn.

Sustaining the law

Do you have this problem, young

men? This is a problem stated by a

young man who contemplates military

call-up. This is what he says: "Didn't

the Savior teach peace? To me, peace

means no fighting. I am not sure about

our present military involvements." I

say to this young man, the following

facts helped me and they may be

helpful to you:

Where the Book of Mormon talks

about a land choice above all others,

I believe it.

When we are taught that our founding forefathers prayed for and received

inspiration as they framed our Constitution, I believe it.

When a prophet suggests that the

gospel could best be restored in a land

of freedom and democracy, I believe it.

When the standard works of the

Church instruct me about obeying,

honoring, and sustaining the law, I

want to do it. I even believe that our

elected national leaders are basically

honest men and base their decisions

upon what they believe to be for the

good of the people as they see it.

Last but not least, I also believe that

a prophet of God will let me know

about any change of policy in the

foregoing line of reasoning. Young

men, to whatever country your citizenship commitment might be, you honor

it, you obey it, you sustain it. To do

otherwise would be contrary to law

and order; and law and order is the

basis of the priesthood, wherever it is

established.

Example of leaders

Just one more: Some young people

feel the same as this member of a

teachers quorum from California. "We

like what our ward and stake leaders

teach us. The gospel plan is perfect,

but they too often fall short of that

perfection in their personal living."

Young man in California, I hope you

are listening tonight.

Without qualification, I can say that

the Lord Jesus Christ is the only person to remain perfect through mortality. Stevenson has said something

like this: The saints are just the sinners

who are trying a little harder. I want

to promise you young men of the

Aaronic Priesthood that no one in all

this world is trying harder to achieve

perfection than your fine leaders in

the priesthood: your bishopric, your

stake presidency, your high council,

and your advisers. But we are all in

this mortal stream together, all of us,

you and your leaders, and me. We are

all in together and, I hope, trying to

do better each day. Let us all try to

help one another with shortcomings.

To criticize and run down is to aid the

adversary in his plan of destruction.

Young men, we, your leaders, will continue to encourage you in kindness and

sincerity. Will you help us, your

priesthood leaders, in the same way?

That is what true brotherhood in the

priesthood means.

Promise of blessings

O my wonderful young brethren, this

work is true. Priesthood is the center

core of it all. You can't win any game

without a plan. Look sharp. Be clean.

Be proud to represent your priesthood.

The only real peace in this world is

peace of mind. You listen to the voice

of a prophet and let your priesthood

leaders show you the way, and I will

promise you that life will be sweet.

Your priesthood will be meaningful,

and yours will be victory. There will

be no greater day in your life than to

enter the presence of your Heavenly

Father and hear him say, "Well done,

thou good and faithful servant," and I

pray it in the name of his Son, Jesus

Christ. Amen.

