President Harold B. Lee

First Counselor in the First Presidency and President of the Council of the Twelve

• This morning in my remarks I desire to direct your attention to some

principles of vital importance to every

human soul, by relating an incident

with which almost everyone will be

familiar, which may serve as something of an introduction to what I

would say to you in this great conference, on this the Lord's day, in this

historic Tabernacle, which has been

the forum for some of the greatest

discourses given in our generation.

Humbled by this realization, I seek

for divine guidance, that I might be in

harmony with the spirit of this wonderful occasion.

Flight of Apollo 13

To introduce my text I want to use,

as an illustration, a well-remembered

incident to which other speakers at

this conference have already made

reference.

Some months ago, millions of watchers and listeners over the world waited

breathlessly and anxiously the precarious flight of Apollo 13. The whole

world, it seemed, prayed for one significant result: the safe return to earth of

three brave men.

When one of them with restrained

anxiety announced the startling information, "We have had an explosion!"

the mission control in Houston immediately mobilized all the technically

trained scientists who had, over the

years, planned every conceivable detail

pertaining to that flight.

The safety of those three now depended on two vital qualifications: on

the reliability of the skills and the

knowledge of those technicians in the

mission control center at Houston, and

upon the implicit obedience of the men

in the Aquarius to every instruction

from the technicians, who, because of

their understanding of the problems of

the astronauts, were better qualified

to find the essential solutions. The decisions of the technicians had to be

perfect or the Aquarius could have

missed the earth by thousands of miles.

Analogous to troublous times

This dramatic event is somewhat

analogous to these troublous times in

which we live. The headlines in the

public press only this week made another startling announcement by a

presidential commission to the President of the United States. "U.S. Society

Is in Peril." Many are frightened when

they see and hear of unbelievable

happenings the world over—political

intrigues, wars and contention everywhere, frustrations of parents, endeavoring to cope with social problems

that threaten to break down the sanctity of the home, the frustrations of

children and youth as they face challenges to their faith and their morals.

Only if you are willing to listen and

obey, as did the astronauts on the

Aquarius, can you and all your households be guided to ultimate safety and

security in the Lord's own way.

There are, in these troubled times,

agonizing cries of distress among the

peoples of the earth. There are intense

feelings of a need for some way to find

a solution to overwhelming problems

and to ease this distress from all that

affects mankind.

Fulfillment of prophecies

To one who is acquainted with and

well versed in the prophetic teachings

of the past generations, there should

be little question as to the meaning of

all that is going on among us today,

when it seems as though everything is

in turmoil.

Prophecy may well be defined as

history in reverse. Before our very eyes

we are witnessing the fulfillment of

prophecies made by inspired prophets

in ages past. In the very beginning of

this dispensation we were plainly told

in a revelation from the Lord that the

time was nigh at hand when peace

would be taken from the earth and the

devil would have power over his own

dominion. (See D&C 1:35.) The

prophets of our day also foretold that

there should be wars and rumors of

wars, and "the whole earth shall be in

commotion, and men's hearts shall fail

them, and they shall say that Christ

delayeth his coming until the end of

the earth. And the love of men shall

wax cold, and iniquity shall abound."

(D&C 45:26-27.)

Signs of second coming

When the disciples asked the Master, prior to his crucifixion, as to signs

that should immediately precede his

coming again to the earth, as he foretold, he answered by saying that "in

those days, shall be great tribulations

on the Jews, and upon the inhabitants

of Jerusalem;

".

. . and except those days should be

shortened, there should none of their

flesh be saved.

"But for the elect's sake, according

to the covenant, those days shall be

shortened.

"For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom;

there shall be famine and pestilences,

and earthquakes in divers places." (In

spired Version, Matt. 24:18-20, 30; see

also Joseph Smith 1:18-20, 29.)

The Master undoubtedly spoke of

times such as these when he foretold

that a man would be "at variance

against his father, and the daughter

against her mother, and the daughterin-law against her mother-in-law.

"And a man's foes shall be they of

his own household." (Matt. 10:35-36.)

With all of this in mind, one may

ask: To whom may those in distress

and in great anxiety look for the answer and for "refuge from this storm"

raging all about them?

Guide to safety

Almighty God, through his Son, our

Lord, has pointed the way and has

given to all mankind a sure guide to

safety, when he declared that the Lord

shall have power over his saints and

would reign in their midst, when his

mighty judgments would descend upon

the world. (See D&C 1:36.)

He said to all men: "Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your

Lord doth come.

"Therefore be ye also ready: for in

such an hour as ye think not the Son

of Man cometh." (Matt. 24:42, 44.)

He has counseled that his "disciples

shall stand in holy places, and shall

not be moved; but among the wicked,

men shall lift up their voices and curse

God and die." (D&C 45:32.)

From the incident of the Apollo 13

as I have related, and having in mind

the promises of the Lord to which I

have made reference, I will now, in a

few moments, undertake to outline

briefly the wondrously conceived plan

upon obedience to which the salvation

of every soul depends in his journey

through mortality to his ultimate destiny—a return to that God who gave

him life. This is that way by which

the Lord will keep his promise "to have

power over his saints and to reign in

their midst."

Everlasting covenant

This plan is identified by name, and

the overarching purpose is clearly setforth in an announcement to the

Church in the beginning of this gospel

dispensation.

More than a century ago the Lord

declared:

"And even so I have sent mine everlasting covenant into the world, to be

a light to the world, and to be a

standard for my people, and for the

Gentiles to seek to it, and to be a

messenger before my face to prepare

the way before me." (D&C 45:9.)

This plan, then, was to be as a covenant, which implied a contract to be

participated in by more than one person. It was to be a standard for the

Lord's elect and for all the world to

benefit by it. Its purpose was to serve

the needs of all men and to prepare

the world for the second coming of

the Lord.

Participants in plan

The participants in the formulation

of this plan in the premortal world

were all the spirit children of our

Heavenly Father. Our oldest scriptures,

from the writings of the ancient

prophets Abraham and Jeremiah, affirm also that God, or Eloheim, was

there; his Firstborn Son, Jehovah,

Abraham, Jeremiah, and many others

of great stature were there.

All the organized intelligences before the earth was formed, who had

become spirits, were there, including

many great and noble ones whose performance and conduct in that premortal sphere qualified them to become

rulers and leaders in carrying out this

eternal plan.

Roles defined

The apostle Paul in his writings to

the Corinthians taught that "there be

gods many, and lords many," and then

he added, "But to us there is but one

God, the Father, of whom are all

things, and we in him; and one Lord

Jesus Christ, by whom are all things,

and we by him." (1 Cor. 8:5-6. Italics

added.)

I would have you note particularly

the use of the preposition "of," in reference to the Father, and the preposition "by," in reference to our Lord,

Jesus Christ. In this statement is

clearly defined the role of each, the

Lord to do the bidding of the Father,

in the execution of the whole plan of

salvation for all mankind. (See Abr.

4.)

Understanding this principle in the

plan of the government of God, we are

given a glimpse of the council meeting

of Gods, as briefly recorded in revelations to ancient prophets.

The earth prepared

Under the Father's instruction and

by Jehovah's direction, the earth and

all pertaining thereto was organized

and formed. They "ordered," they

"watched over" and "prepared" the

earth. They took "counsel among themselves" as to the bringing of all manner of life to the earth and all things,

including man, and prepared it for the

carrying out of the plan, which we

could well liken to a blueprint, by

which the children of God could be

tutored and trained in all that was

necessary for the divine purpose of

bringing to pass, "to the glory of God,"

the opportunity of every soul to gain

"immortality and eternal life." Eternal

life means to have everlasting life in

that celestial sphere where God and

Christ dwell, by doing all things we

are commanded. (See Abr. 3:25.)

The plan embodied three distinctive

principles:

Free agency

First, the privilege to be given to

every soul to choose for himself "liberty and eternal life" through obedience to the laws of God, or "captivity

and death" as to spiritual things because of disobedience. (See 2 Ne. 2:27.)

Next to life itself, free agency is

God's greatest gift to mankind, providing thereby the greatest opportunity

for the children of God to advance in

this second estate of mortality. A

prophet-leader on this continent explained this to his son as recorded in

an ancient scripture: that to bring

about these, the Lord's eternal purposes, there must be opposites, an

enticement by the good on the one

hand and by the evil on the other, or

to say it in the language of the scriptures, ". . . the forbidden fruit in

opposition to the tree of life; the one

being sweet and the other being bitter."

This father further explained, "Wherefore, the Lord God gave unto man that

he should act for himself. Wherefore,

man could not act for himself save it

should be that he was enticed by the

one or the other." (2 Ne. 2:15-16.)

Atonement of Savior

The second distinctive principle in

this divine plan involved the necessity

of providing a savior by whose atonement the most favored Son of God became our Savior, as a "Lamb slain

from the foundation of the world"

(Rev. 13:8), as revealed to John on the

Isle of Patmos. Another prophet-teacher

explained that the mission of the Son

of God was to "make intercession for

all the children of men; and they that

believe in him shall be saved." (2

Ne. 2:9.)

We hear much from some of limited

understanding about the possibility of

one's being saved by grace alone. But it

requires the explanation of another

prophet to understand the true doctrine

of grace as he explained in these meaningful words:

"For," said this prophet, "we labor

diligently to write, to persuade our

children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ, and to be reconciled to

God; for we know that it is by grace

that we are saved, after all we can do."

(2 Ne. 25:23.) Truly we are redeemed

by the atoning blood of the Savior of

the world, but only after each has done

all he can to work out his own salvation.

Salvation through obedience

The third great distinctive principle

in the plan of salvation was the provision that "all mankind may be saved,

by obedience to the laws and ordinances

of the Gospel." (Article of Faith 3.)

These fundamental laws and ordinances by which salvation comes are

clearly set forth:

First, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ.

Second, repentance from sin, meaning the turning away from the sins of

disobedience to God's laws and never

returning again thereto. The Lord

spoke plainly on this point. Said he:
". . . go your ways and sin no more;

but unto that soul who sinneth [meaning, of course, returning again to the

sins from which he has repented] shall

the former sins return, saith the Lord

your God." (D&C 82:7.)

Third, baptism by water and of the

Spirit, by which ordinances only, as

the Master taught Nicodemus, could

one see or enter into the kingdom of

God. (See John 3:4-5.)

This same teaching was forcibly

impressed by the resurrected Savior to

the saints on this continent, in what it

appears likely was his final message

to his disciples. The Master taught

his faithful saints that "no unclean

thing can enter into his kingdom;

therefore nothing entereth into his rest

save it be those who have washed their

garments in my blood, because of their

faith, and the repentance of all their

sins, and their faithfulness unto the

end.

"Now this is the commandment:

Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and

come unto me and be baptized in my

name, that ye may be sanctified by the

reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye

may stand spotless before me at the last

day.

"Verily, verily, I say unto you, this

is my gospel

"

(3 Ne. 27:19-21.)

Promise to the faithful

If the children of the Lord, which

includes all who are upon this earth,

regardless of nationality, color, or

creed, will heed the call of the true

messenger of the gospel of Jesus Christ,

as did the three astronauts on the

Aquarius to the trained technicians at

Mission Control in the hour of their

peril, each may in time see the Lord

and know that he is, as the Lord has

promised, then their calling and election will be made sure. They will

"become the sons of Moses and of

Aaron, and the seed of Abraham, . . .

and- the elect of God." (D&C 84:34.)

This promise of the glory which

awaits those who are faithful to the

end was plainly portrayed in the Master's parable of the Prodigal Son. To

the son who was faithful and did not

squander his birthright, the father,

who in the Master's lesson would be

our Father and our God, promised

this faithful son: "Son, thou art ever

with me, and all that I have is thine."

(Luke 15:31.)

In a revelation through a modern

prophet, the Lord promises to the

faithful and obedient today: ".

. . all

that my Father hath shall be given

unto him." (D&C 84:38.)

Obedience to law

Or will we be like those foolhardy

ones on the river above the Niagara

Falls who were approaching the dangerous rapids? Despite warnings of the

river guards to go toward safety before it

was too late, and in complete disregard

of the warnings, they laughed, they

danced, they drank, they mocked, and

they perished.

So would have been the fate of the

three astronauts on the Aquarius if

they had refused to give heed to the

minutest instruction from Houston

Control. Their very lives depended

upon obedience to the basic laws which

govern and control the forces of the

universe.

Jesus wept as he witnessed the world

about him in his day which had seemingly gone mad, and continually

mocked his pleading that they come

unto him along "the strait and narrow

way," so plainly marked out in God's

eternal plan of salvation.

Response to pleadings

O that we could hear again his

pleadings today as he then cried out:

"O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that

killest the prophets, and stonest them

which are sent unto thee, how often

would I have gathered thy children

together, even as a hen gathereth her

chickens under her wings, and ye

would not!" (Matt. 23:37.)

O that the world would see in another parable to John the Revelator the

sacred figure of the Master calling to

us today as he did to those of Jerusalem:

Said the Master, "Behold, I stand at

the door, and knock: if any man hear

my voice, and open the door, I will

come in to him, and will sup with him,

and he with me.

"To him that overcometh will I grant

to sit with me in my throne, even as

I also overcame, and am set down with

my Father in his throne." (Rev.

3:20-21.)

The plan of salvation

Here, then, is the plan of salvation

as taught by the true church, which is

founded upon apostles and prophets,

with Christ, the Lord, as the chief

cornerstone (Eph. 2:20), by which only

can peace come, not as the world

giveth, but as only the Lord can give

to those who overcome the things of the

world, as did the Master.

"Neither is there salvation in any

other: for there is none other name

under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved." (Acts 4:12.)

To all of this I bear my sincere witness in the name of our Lord Jesus

Christ.

Thanks for one more day

In a recent meeting I listened to a

young girl's heartwarming testimony.

Her father was afflicted with what the

doctors had pronounced was an incurable malady. To his wife one morning,

this stricken father, after a night of

pain and suffering, had said with great

feeling, "I am so thankful today."

"For what?" she asked. He replied,

"For God's giving me the privilege of

one more day with you."

Today I could desire with all my

heart that all within the sound of this

broadcast would likewise thank God

for one more day! For what? For the

opportunity to take care of some unfinished business. To repent; to right

some wrongs; to influence for good

some wayward child; to reach out to

someone who cries for help—in short,

to thank God for one more day to prepare to meet God.

Strength for today

Don't try to live too many days

ahead. Seek for strength to attend to

the problems of today. In his Sermon

on the Mount, the Master admonished:

"Take therefore no thought of the

morrow: for the morrow shall take

thought lor the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof."

(Matt. 6:34.)

Do all that you can do and leave

the rest to God, the Father of us all.

It is not enough to say I will do my

hest, but rather, I will do everything

which is within my power; I will do

all that is necessary.

Acceptance of lessons taught

In a plaque on the walls of the Radio

City Music Hall in New York City are

these profound words of wisdom:

"Man's ultimate destiny depends, not

upon whether he can learn new lessons,

or make new discoveries, and conquests,

but upon his acceptance of the lessons

taught."

My prayer is that the message of

those words of wisdom may be translated into a determination on the part

of all of us listening here this day, to

the end that our eyes will be so single

to God, that our whole bodies shall be

so filled with light, that there shall

be no darkness in us, to the end

that we may be able to comprehend all

things. (See D&C 88:67.)

God grant that it might be so, I pray

in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.

Amen. O

President N. Eldon Tanner

That powerful address was delivered

by President Harold B. Lee, first counselor in the First Presidency of The

Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day

Saints.

The Tabernacle Choir will now sing,

"Jesus, Our Lord, We Adore Thee."

After the singing, Elder Boyd K.

Packer of the Council of the Twelve

will address us.

The Tabernacle Choir sang "Jesus,

Our Lord, We Adore Thee."

President Tanner

Many stations have just tuned in on

this conference, and we wish to extend

to them a cordial welcome.

Elder Boyd K. Packer of the Council of the Twelve will now address us.

