Elder Boyd K. Packer

Of the Council of the Twelve

• I come to this pulpit this Sabbath

morning with a new obligation, anxious perhaps as never before for the

sustaining influence of the Spirit of

the Lord, for an interest in your faith

and prayers for us here and for those

who shall be listening, as I speak to

the parents of wayward and lost

children.

Missing children

Sometime ago, a father, worried

about a serious problem with his son,

was heard to remark, "When he leaves

and we don't know where he is, there's

pain in our hearts, but when he's here

there are times when he's a pain in

the neck." It's about that pain in the

heart that I want to speak. I speak to

a very large audience, I fear.

Hardly is there a neighborhood without at least one mother whose last

waking, anxious thoughts and prayers

are for a son or a daughter wandering

who knows where. Nor is there much

distance between homes where an

anxious father can hardly put in a

day's work without being drawn within

himself time after time, to wonder,

"What have we done wrong? What

can we do to get our child back?"

Home under attack

Even parents with the best intentions—some who have really tried

—

now know that heartache. Many par-

ents have tried in every way to protect

their children—only now to find they

are losing one. For the home and the

family are under attack. Ponder these

words, if you will:

Profanity

Nudity

Immorality

Divorce

Pornography

Addiction

Violence

Perversion

These words have taken on a new

meaning in the last few years, haven't

they?

You are within walking distance, at

least within a few minutes' drive, of a

theater in your own neighborhood.

There will be shown, within the week,

a film open to young and old alike that

as recently as ten years ago would have

been banned, the film confiscated, and

the theater owner placed under indictment. But now it's there, and soon it

will be seen at home on your television

screens.

Disobedient to parents

The apostle Paul prophesied to

Timothy:

"This know also, that in the last

days perilous times shall come.

"For men shall be lovers of their own

selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. . .

."

(2 Tim. 3:1-2.)

There is more to that scripture, but

we stop on that phrase "disobedient to

parents."

We have no desire to touch the subject that causes you so much pain, nor

to condemn you as a failure. But you

are failing, and that's what makes it

hurt. If failure is to end, one must

face squarely problems like this, however much it hurts.

Facing the painful truth

A few years ago I was called in the

wee hours of the morning to the side

of my ailing mother, who was hospitalized for a series of tests.

"I'm going home," she said. "I'll not

continue with these tests. I want you

to take me home right now. I won't go

through another day of this."

"But mother," I said, "you must go

through with this. They have reason

to believe that you have cancer, and if

it is as they suppose, you have the

worst kind."

There! It had been said. After all

the evading, all the whispered conversations. After all the care never to say

that word when she was around. It

was out!

She sat quietly on her bed for a long

time and then said, "Well, if that's

what it is, that's what it is, and I'll

fight it." Her Danish dander was up.

And fight it she did, and winner she

was.

Some may suppose she lost her battle

to that disease, but she came away a

glorious, successful winner. Her victory

was assured when she faced the painful truth. Her courage began then.

Changes begin with parents

Parents, can we first consider the

most painful part of your problem? If

you want to reclaim your son or

daughter, why don't you leave off trying to alter your child just for a little

while and concentrate on yourself. The

changes must begin with you, not with

your children.

You can't continue to do what you

have been doing (even though you

thought it was right) and expect to

unproduce some behavior in your child,

when your conduct was one of the

things that produced it.

There! It's been said! After all the

evading, all the concern for wayward

children. After all the blaming of

others, the care to be gentle with parents. It's out!

It's you, not the child, that needs

immediate attention.

Now parents, there is substantial help

for you if you will accept it. I add with

emphasis that the help we propose is

not easy, for the measures are equal to

the seriousness of your problem. There

is no patent medicine to effect an immediate cure.

Cure involves religion

And parents, if you seek for a cure

that ignores faith and religious doctrine, you look for a cure where it never

will be found. When we talk of religious principles and doctrines and

quote scripture, interesting, isn't it, how

many don't feel comfortable with talk

like that. But when we talk about

your problems with your family and

offer a solution, then your interest is

intense.

Know that you can't talk about one

without talking about the other, and

expect to solve your problems. Once

parents know that there is a God and

that we are his children, they can face

problems like this and win.

If you are helpless, he is not.

If you are lost, he is not.

If you don't know what to do next,

he knows.

It would take a miracle, you say?

Well, if it takes a miracle, why not.

A course of prevention

We urge you to move first on a

course of prevention.

There is a poem entitled "The Fence

or the Ambulance." It tells of efforts

to provide an ambulance at the bottom

of a cliff and concludes with these

two verses:

"Then an old sage remarked: It's a

marvel to me

That people give far more attention

To repairing results than to stopping

the cause

When they'd much better aim at prevention.

Let us stop at its source all this mischief, cried he,

Come neighbors and friends, let us

rally;

If the cliff we will fence, we might almost dispense

With the ambulance down in the

valley.

"Better guide well the young than reclaim them when old,

For the voice of true wisdom is calling:

'To rescue the fallen is good, but 'tis

best

To prevent other people from falling.'

Better close up the source of temptation

and crime,

Than deliver from dungeon or galley;

Better put a strong fence round the top

of the cliff,

Than an ambulance down in the

valley."

—Joseph Malins

We prevent physical disease by immunization. This heart pain you are

suffering perhaps might likewise have

been prevented with very simple measures at one time. Fortunately the very

steps necessary for prevention are the

ones that will produce the healing. In

other words, prevention is the best

cure, even in advanced cases.

Now I would like to show you a very

practical and a very powerful place to

begin, both to protect your children

and, in the case of one you are losing,

to redeem him.

"Family Home Evenings"

I have in my hands the publication

Family Home Evenings. It is the

seventh in a series and is available

across the world in 17 languages. If

you would go through it with me, you

would find that this one is based on

the New Testament. The theme is free

agency. While it draws lessons from

New Testament days, it does not content itself with them back then and

there. It leaps across the centuries and

concerns itself with you, and here and

now.

It is well illustrated, much of it in

full color, and has many meaningful

activities for families with children of

any age.

Here (page 35), for instance, is a

crossword puzzle. And here (page 20)

on this colorful page is a game. Cut it

out and make a spinner of cardboard,

and the whole family can play. You'll

find yourselves, depending on the

moves you make, somewhere between

"Heavenly Treasures" and "Earthly

Pleasures."

Here is a lesson entitled "How Our

Family Came to Be" (page 51).

".

. .

tell your children," it suggests, "how

you met, fell in love, and married. Be

sure both parents participate, and illustrate your story with pictures and me-

mentoes you have saved—the wedding

dress, the announcements; wedding

pictures. It might be a good idea to

tape your narrative and keep it for

your children to play to their children

some day."

Let me list some of the other titles:

"Our Family Government," "Learning

to Worship," "Speaking Words of Purity," "Family Finances," "Parenthood,

a Sacred Opportunity," "Respect for

Authority," "The Value of Humor,"

"So You're Going to Move," "When the

Unexpected Happens," "The Birth and

Infancy of the Savior."

"A Call to be Free"

Here is one entitled "A Call to Be

Free." That's the siren call your child

is following, you know. This lesson

includes a page of very official-looking

colored certificates with instructions to

"choose for each family member some

activity he has not learned to do; then

give each member a certificate . . .

signed by the father: 'This certificate

gives the owner permission to play a

tune on the piano as a part of family

home evening.' " (Of course, the child

has never had piano lessons.)

Other certificates may include (depending on the age of the child) "walking on one's hands, speaking in a

foreign language, or painting an oil

portrait." Then as each member says

he cannot do the thing permitted, talk

about why he is not free to do the thing

he is permitted to do. The discussion

will reveal that "each person must

learn the laws that govern the development of an ability and then learn

to obey those laws. Thus obedience

leads to freedom."

Here, under special helps for families

with small children, it suggests they

put toy cars on the table top and feel

free to run them anywhere they want

and in any manner they like. Even

little minds can see the results of this.

There is much more to this lesson

and to all of these special lessons

—

subtle, powerful magnets that help to

draw your child closer to the family

circle.

Uniform home evening

This program is designed for a family meeting to be held once a week.

In the Church, Monday night has been

designated and set aside, Churchwide,

for families to be at home together.

Instruction has recently gone out, from

which I quote:

"Those responsible for priesthood

and auxiliary programs, including

temple activities, youth athletic activities, student activities, etc., should take

notice of this decision in order that

Monday night will be uniformly observed throughout the Church and the

families be left free from Church activities so that they can meet together

in the family home evening." {Priesthood Bulletin, September 1970.)

With this program comes the promise

from the prophets, the living prophets,

that if parents will gather their children about them once a week and

teach the gospel, those children in such

families will not go astray.

Gospel essential to program

Some of you outside the Church,

and unfortunately many within, hope

that you could take a manual like this

without accepting fully the gospel of

Jesus Christ, the responsibilities of

Church membership, and the scriptures

upon which it is based. You are permitted to do that. (We could even give

you a "certificate" to permit you to

raise an ideal family.) You still would

not be free to do so without obeying

the laws. To take a program like this

without the gospel would have you act

as one who obtained a needle to immunize a child against a fatal disease

but rejected the serum to go in it that

could save him.

Leadership of family

Parents, it is past time for you to assume spiritual leadership of your family. If there is no substance to your

present belief, then have the courage

to seek the truth.

There is, living now, the finest generation of youth that ever walked the

earth. You have seen some of them

serving on missions. Perhaps you have

turned them away. You ought to seek

them out. If they are nothing else, the)'

are adequate evidence that youth can

live in honor. And there are tens of

thousands of them who are literal

saints—Latter-day Saints.

Never give up

Now parents, I desire to inspire you

with hope. You who have heartache,

you must never give up. No matter

how dark it gets or no matter how far

away or how far down your son or

daughter has fallen, you must never

give up. Never, never, never.

I desire to inspire you with hope.

"Soft as the voice of an angel, whispering a message unheard,

Hope with a gentle persuasion whispers

her comforting word.

Wait till the darkness is over, wait till

the coming of dawn,

Hope for the sunshine tomorrow, after

the shower is gone.

Whispering hope, Oh how welcome

thy voice. . .

."

God bless you heartbroken parents.

There is no pain so piercing as that

caused by the loss of a child, nor joy

so exquisite as the joy at his redemption.

God lives

I come to you now as one of the

Twelve, each ordained as a special

witness. I affirm to you that I have

that witness. I know that God lives,

that Jesus is the Christ. I know that

though the world "seeth him not,

neither knoweth him," that he lives.

Heartbroken parents, lay claim upon

his promise: "I will not leave you

comfortless; I will come to you." (John

14:17-18.) In the name of Jesus Christ.

Amen. O

