Elder Richard L. Evans

Of the Council of the Twelve

• President Smith and my beloved

brethren of the priesthood: Hanging

in my office are two moving portrayals

of the importance of the written word:

One is a picture of Mormon working

on the gold plates, and the other of

Moroni, in his anguished loneliness,

about to leave the records in Cumorah's

Hill.

The written word

I think how Nephi and his brothers

were sent to obtain the written

records, and of the Ten Commandments inscribed on tablets of stone. I

have long been associated with the

"Spoken Word," but never do I suppose

that it will take the place of the written word.

Since the beginning of this dispensation, the Church has provided various

periodicals and publications for its

people. They would make a long and

distinguished list, published for a season, and then supplanted, according to

circumstances. And now with the

Church reaching worldwide, further

changes are with us.

Improvement Era

The Improvement Era, established

some 73 years ago by President Heber

J. Grant, President Joseph F. Smith,

and others, has served an important

purpose, along with the other magazines of the Church. I am privileged

to have been associated with the Era

nearly half the length of its life.

And now, as announced, all such

periodicals are to be published directly

through the priesthood channels of the

Church.

The New Era

We are pleased that the magazine to

be published for the young people shall

be named the New Era—and the title

would seem to be timeless. In its first

issue, the Improvement Era announced

as its purpose to uplift the lives of

youth and to aid parents and teachers

in the same effort. The New Era will

be pointed to the same purpose.

Brother Doyle Green, Brother Jay

Todd, and Sister Elaine Cannon, under

the general direction of the First Presidency, with others of the General

Authorities, including President Kimball, Brothers Marion G. Romney,

Howard W. Hunter, Marion D. Hanks,

Bishop John H. Vandenberg, and a

long list of distinguished contributors,

are committed to making the New Era

serve the youth and young adults of

the Church, from deacons on through

Aaronic Priesthood, with girls of

like age—seminaries, institutes, Sunday

School, MIA, LDSSA; and in general,

those young people in the searching,

decision-making years of life who are

as yet uncommitted to marriage; those

concerned with college, careers, missions, military service, dating, dress and

grooming, books, art, science, literature,

doctrinal questions that arise in the

pursuit of education, and the whole

moral tone, and conduct and principles

and standards that so much need to be

retaught and reemphasized in these

times. (President Lee reminded us

within the last few hours that 31.1 percent of the membership of the Church

are between the ages of 12 and 25.) The

years before marriage, these years of

searching and decision, affect the future forever.

Need for subscribers

And now, I have a most embarrassing

admission to make. We are scheduled

to bring out the first issue of the New

Era in January—and we don't know

how many to print. So far as I officially know, we don't yet have a single

subscriber! The Friend that Brother

Hinckley has been talking about and

the adult magazine concerning which

Brother Monson will tell us took all the

subscribers. And yet they're such nice

people; you would think they would

have left us just a few! They left us

with the nucleus of a wonderful staff,

and a good name—but not a single

subscriber! And so you, the young

people of the Church, see your ward or

branch magazine representative and

offer him three dollars or its equiva

lent, according to the country in which

you live, for a subscription to the New

Era. We won't refuse a subscription

from anyone that I know of! And right

now we're offering the first free subscription of the New Era to President

Smith, if he will accept it!

Challenging for young people

We pledge you our best to make the

New Era challenging, attractive, full ol

substance, exciting, with much expression in it from the young people of the

Church themselves and from all their

organizations, and from the First Presidency and other General Authorities,

with a candid, open, practical, contemporary approach—yet firmly tied to

the revealed and timeless truths on

which our faith and our lives are

founded. We pledge you our best to

make the New Era something that you

will want to have in your homes,

something to read, something that will

be sincerely significant in your lives.

God bless you all, my beloved young

friends, Churchwide and worldwide,

and be with all of you—always—I pray

in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. O

