Elder Alvin R. Dyer

Assistant to the Council of the Twelve

• I know now, my brethren and sisters,

what it is to dig the last fence-post

hole. Being one of the last speakers

at this conference has prompted my

mind in the reflection of some other

last things, and I thought of my

grandparents who were convert immigrants from England. They were on

one of the last wagon trains to Utah

before the coming of the railroad.

That officially makes them pioneers.

Experiences of pioneer family

My father, with long, curly, black

hair, was a member of this pioneer

family. While they were on the trail

camped for the night, well-meaning

Indians came into the camp in search

of food. The chief of the Indian band

later that night stole back with seven

Indian ponies and tied them to the

wagon wheel and took my father. This

held up the wagon train for several

days until the scouts could find the

Indian camp. They waited for the

braves to go on a hunting expedition.

Then they rescued my father from a

wickiup and left in payment, in Indian fashion, the same seven ponies,

but they placed on the back of each

pony a pioneer blanket. This is a true

Indian trading principle, and I believe

it is a good principle, because it is

always better to give more than we

receive.

Two of my aunts, Valentina and

Annie Etta, died on that entourage;

Valentina was buried on the plains.

This black-haired boy grew to manhood and became a part of the Old

West. For a number of years as a

young man he used to light the gas

lamps on Main Street. There were 36

of them. I have often heard him tell

that they chose him because he was

tall and he could reach and turn them

off in the morning and on at night.

Influence with young men

There is another story that I remembered of him, as Victor Brown was

speaking about the deacons. My father

had a great influence with young

people. There in the area where he

lived, one of the deacons had been

seriously reprimanded by the bishop or

someone who was teaching the class of

deacons, and he became belligerent and

vowed that he would never go back to

church again. This young man was

so influential that he influenced 11

other deacons to stay away from

church, and these 12 boys bound

themselves together and called themselves the twelve apostles. They built

a hut that was partially submerged

under the ground, and this is where

they held their private meetings. Their

sole purpose was to bother any boy

who would try to go to priesthood

meeting, and many of them were

beaten up on their way and intimidated

to try to prevent them from going to

church.

My father was given the assignment

to try to get these boys back into activity in the Church, and he did this

by going to their hut and visiting with

them for long periods of time, until

one by one he got them to come back.

This is a success story, for every one of

those boys except one went into the

mission field. I have often thought of

this experience accomplished by the

boy who was taken by the Indians,

who left seven ponies to pay for him.

I am glad, of course, that they didn't

keep him.

Feast of the gospel

I rejoice with you, my brothers and

sisters, in the faith-promoting inspiration of what we have heard and felt

at this great conference, which will

soon come to a close.

Such gatherings in ancient times are

scripturally referred to as feasts, and

I suppose that description is appropriate

today, for surely we have had a feast

of the gospel. As always, when the

saints of God meet in conference,

there is an outpouring of the Spirit,

causing a renewal of faith and a reas-

surance of our convictions, that we

might continue steadfast through gratitude and sacrifice in meeting the

challenge of a rightousness in the progressive journey of life.

Perhaps if a central motif or master

theme could be deducted from this

conference, it would emphasize the

need of testimony, of a contriteness of

spirit, a greater meekness in serving the

Lord and in working out our salvation.

I think it was Pogo who said, "We have

met the enemy and he is us."

In a revelation especially applicable

to the Saints in Zion, who at that particular time were assembled in Jackson

County, Missouri, the Lord gave this

commandment, among others that were

stressed at the time, and which I think

finds application among us today as it

did then:

Thank the Lord in all things

"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy

God in all things.

"Thou shalt offer a sacrifice unto the

Lord thy God in righteousness, even

that of a broken heart and a contrite

spirit." (D&C 59:7-8.)

This divine commandment is related,

I believe, to other utterances of the

Lord and is characteristic of his person.

The Beatitudes

In one of his never-to-be-forgotten

sermons unto the multitudes that followed him, he uttered the sayings

which have become known as the

Beatitudes. Herein is described the

moral character required in those who

are to constitute his kingdom. These

are familiar to all of us. May I repeat

them.

"Blessed are the poor in spirit: for

theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

"Blessed are they that mourn: for

they shall be comforted.

"Blessed are the meek: for they shall

inherit the earth.

"Blessed are they which do hunger

and thirst after righteousness: for they

shall be filled.

"Blessed are the merciful: for they

shall obtain mercy.

"Blessed are the pure in heart: for

they shall see God.

"Blessed are the peacemakers: for

they shall be called the children of

God.

"Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs

is the kingdom of heaven." (Matt. 5:3-

10.)

Importance emphasized

To seemingly emphasize the importance of these characteristics, and that

they were displayed in the Master himself, we have his utterances upon another occasion.

"At that time Jesus answered and

said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of

heaven and earth, because thou hast

hid these things from the wise and

prudent, and hast revealed them unto

babes.

"Even so, Father: for so it seemeth

good in thy sight.

"All things are delivered unto me of

my Father: and no man knoweth the

Son, but the Father; neither knoweth

any man the Father, save the Son, and

he to whomsoever the Son will reveal

him.

"Come unto me, all ye that labour

and are heavy laden, and I will give

you rest.

"Take my yoke upon you, and learn

of me; for I am meek and lowly in

heart: and ye shall find rest unto your

souls.

"For my yoke is easy, and my burden

is light." (Matthew 11:25-30.)

Preparation for celestial glory

Concerning the inheriting of the

earth by the meek, this no doubt has

reference to its condition after it has

received its regenerated glory unto that

of a celestial glory. Of this the Lord

has plainly spoken in this dispensation.

"Therefore, it must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it

may be prepared for the celestial glory;

"For after it hath filled the measure

of its creation, it shall be crowned

with glory, even with the presence of

God the Father;

"That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it forever and

ever; for, for this intent was it made

and created, and for this intent are

they sanctified." (D&C 88:18-20.)

Humility and meekness

I believe there is perhaps a distinction between humility and meekness.

It may be said that meekness is a condition of voluntary humility. The

prophet Alma seemed to recognize a

distinction, as we may gather from

these words:

"And now, as I said unto you, that

because ye were compelled to be humble ye were blessed, do ye not suppose

that they are more blessed who truly

humble themselves because of the

word?

"Yea, he that truly humbleth himself, and repenteth of his sins, and

endureth to the end, the same shall

be blessed—yea, much more blessed

than they who are compelled to be

humble because of their exceeding

poverty.

"Therefore, blessed are they who

humble themselves without being compelled to be humble; or rather, in other

words, blessed is he that believeth in

the word of God, and is baptized without stubbornness of heart, yea, without

being brought to know the word, or

even compelled to know, before they

will believe." (Al. 32:14-16.)

The pure in heart

The beatitude said, "Blessed are the

pure in heart: for they shall see God."

While speaking unto the weary and

oppressed of the Saints, who had participated in laying the foundation in

Zion, the Lord proclaimed that only

those with the obedience and willingness of the pure in heart and mind

were of the house of Ephraim. Here is

his important counsel given to the

Prophet Joseph Smith, which is applicable today as preparations go forward

in the destiny of God's people.

"Wherefore, be not weary in welldoing, for ye are laying the foundation

of a great work. And out of small

things proceedeth that which is great.

"Behold, the Lord requireth the heart

and a willing mind; and the willing

and obedient shall eat the good of the

land of Zion in these last days.

"And the rebellious shall be cut off

out of the land of Zion, and shall be

sent away, and shall not inherit the

land.

"For, verily I say that the rebellious

are not of the blood of Ephraim, wherefore they shall be plucked out." (D&C

64:33-36.)

It is the good and honest of heart

among the people of the world who

most readily respond to the message of

the Restoration as declared by the missionaries who bring it to them. And

these who are truly spiritually converted become and are the more faithful of the Latter-day Saints. For the

Lord himself declared that only those

who "doeth good" are ready to receive

a fullness of the gospel. (D&C 35:12.)

Opposite characteristics

Perhaps the impact of meekness and

honesty of heart can be more fully

appreciated by the characteristics that

are opposite. These are appropriately

spoken of by Paul the apostle in relation to the very day and age in which

we live, wherein he has said:

"This know also, that in the last

days perilous times shall come.

"For men shall be lovers of their

own selves, covetous, boasters, proud,

blasphemers, disobedient to parents,

unthankful, unholy,

"Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent,

fierce, despisers of those that are good,

"Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers

of pleasures more than lovers of God;

"Having a form of godliness, but

denying the power thereof: from such

turn away.

"For of this sort are they which creep

into houses, and lead captive silly

women laden with sins, led away with

divers lusts,

"Ever learning, and never able to

come to the knowledge of the truth."

(2 Tim. 3:1-7.)

Live by the truth

I bear testimony of the fact that we

have the truth. The course of the true

Latter-day Saint is to nurture and live

by that truth which we accept, casting

aside the extraneous things that can

only mar and distort the simple effectiveness of the gospel. For truly the

everlasting gospel is the glad tidings

of great joy.

In closing, I quote these words from

the apostle Peter, which I think make a

good code for our protection:

"Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king

[Christ]." (1 Pet. 2:17.)

I bear my testimony to you, in the

name of Jesus Christ. Amen. O

