Bishop Victor L. Brown

Of the Presiding Bishopric

• My dear brothers and sisters, I seek

an interest in your faith and prayers,

that I might say something this morning that will have lodging in the hearts

of boys and parents and leaders.

Priesthood of Aaron conferred

"Upon you my fellow servants, in

the name of Messiah I confer the

Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the

keys of the ministering of angels, and

of the gospel of repentance, and of

baptism by immersion for the remission

of sins; and this shall never be taken

again from the earth, until the sons of

Levi do offer again an offering unto

the Lord in righteousness." (D&C 13.)

This historic event took place on

May 15, 1829. It was an answer to the

prayer of Joseph Smith and Oliver

Cowdery respecting baptism for the

remission of sins, which was mentioned

in the Book of Mormon. The heavenly

being who performed this ordinance

introduced himself as John, the same

who is called John the Baptist in the

New Testament. It was he who, in

the River Jordan over 1,800 years before, baptized the Savior, the Son of

God.

He further stated to Joseph and

Oliver that he acted under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who

held the keys of the Melchizedek

Priesthood. John the Baptist held the

keys of the Aaronic Priesthood, which

is known also as the lesser priesthood,

being an appendage or preparatory

priesthood to the higher or Melchizedek

Priesthood.

Aaronic Priesthood bearers

Today in the Church approximately

360,000 boys and men bear the Aaronic

Priesthood. They outnumber by several thousand those who hold the Melchizedek Priesthood. An analysis of

these figures, which I shall not go into

here, points up the urgency of the

proper training and preparation of boys

and men of the Church to assume the

responsibility of leadership that will

fall upon their shoulders as they mature in the gospel. The Lord has made

it very clear that this preparation for

leadership is the responsibility of the

Aaronic Priesthood.

This, then, my brothers and sisters,

is the subject about which I wish to

speak today—the Aaronic Priesthood.

John the Baptist, in conferring this

priesthood on Joseph Smith and Oliver

Cowdery, told in part what it is: "I

confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which

holds the keys of ministering of angels,

and of the gospel of repentance, and of

baptism by immersion for the remission of sins."

Administering outward ordinances

The priesthood is the authority and

power to act in the name of God in

accomplishing his work in righteousness. The Aaronic Priesthood has

power in administering outward ordinances. Someone said, "It is the power

to make things happen."

The power of the priesthood makes

it possible for a young man to fulfill

the commitment he made with the

Savior before coming to this earth,

which commitment was to help build

the kingdom of God on the earth in

a most significant and authoritative

way.

Experience of James E. Talmage

Many of our young men understand

in great depth their responsibilities as

holders of the priesthood and are living

lives that bring honor to it. Of course,

there are those who do not take advantage of these blessings. I am convinced

the reason for this lack of interest, or

casual attitude, is largely due to a lack

of understanding. Perhaps the experience of the late Elder James E.

Talmage, one of the great men of the

Church, who was recognized by the

world for his keen intellect, will shed

some light on what the Aaronic Priesthood can mean in the life of a boy.

"I was called and ordained one

Sunday morning, without any previous

notice; and that afternoon was placed

as a sentinel at the door of the house

in which the Saints had met for worship. As soon as I had been ordained,

a feeling came to me such as I have

never been able to fully describe. It

seemed scarcely possible, that I, a little

boy, could be so honored of God to be

called to the priesthood. I had read of

the sons of Aaron and of Levi who were

chosen for the sacred labors of the

Lesser Priesthood, but that I should be

called to do part of the service that

had been required of them was more

than my little mind could grasp. I

was both frightened and happy. Then,

when I was placed on duty at the door,

I forgot that I was but an eleven-yearold lad; I felt strong in the thought

that I belonged to the Lord, and that

he would assist me in whatever was

required of me. I could not resist the

conviction that other sentinels, stronger

by far than I, stood by me though invisible to human eyes.

"The effect of my ordination to the

deaconship entered into all the affairs

of my boyish life. I am afraid that

sometimes I forgot what I was, but I

have ever been thankful that oft-times

I did remember, and the recollection

always served to make me better. When

at play on the school grounds, and

perhaps tempted to take unfair advantage in the game, when in the midst of

a dispute with a playmate, I would

remember, and the thought would be

as effective as though spoken aloud

—

'7 am a deacon; and it is not right that

a deacon should act in this way.' On

examination days, when it seemed easy

for me to copy some other boy's work

or to 'crib' from the book, I would

remember again

—

'I am a deacon, and

must be honest and true.' When I saw

other boys cheating in play or in

school, I would say in my mind, 'It

would be more wicked for me to do

that than it is for them, because I am

a deacon.'

"Nothing that was required of me

in the duties of my office was irksome;

the sense of the great honor of my

ordination made all service welcome.

I was the only deacon in the branch,

and had abundant opportunity to work.

"The impression made upon my

mind when I was made a deacon has

never faded. The feeling that I was

called to the special service of the Lord,

as a bearer of the priesthood, has been

a source of strength to me through the

years. When later I was ordained to

higher offices in the Church, the same

assurance has come to me, on every

such occasion—that I was in truth

endowed with power from heaven, and

that the Lord demanded of me that I

honor his authority. I have been ordained in turn a teacher, an elder, a

high priest, and lastly an apostle of

the Lord Jesus Christ, and with every

ordination there has come to me a new

and soul-thrilling feeling which first

I knew when I was called to be a deacon in the service of the Lord." (Course

of study for the quorums of the priesthood: Deacons, 1914, pp. 135-36.

Italics added.)

A spiritual experience

Brother Talmage was a boy in England at the time of his ordination. The

reason he was placed as a sentinel at

the door was to warn the members of

the approach of their enemies, for there

was much persecution of the Church

in that area. Imagine, a newly ordained

deacon being given this responsibility!

There are two observations I would

like to make from Brother Talmage's

account of this experience. First, he

was given something worthwhile to do

by his leaders. They exhibited faith in

him. He immediately became involved.

Second, and even more important, he

recognized that even though still a

young boy, he had the authority and

power to perform the task given him

because he held the priesthood. This

recognition replaced fear with courage.

I believe he actually experienced the

ministering of angels.

There is every reason that our young

men today can have the same spiritual

experience, giving them a feeling of

worth and destiny, as felt by Elder

Talmage.

The greatest hero

The society in which we live has

many divergent viewpoints about life;

and because we have been given our

free agency to choose for ourselves, it

is vitally important that we carefully

evaluate all aspects of life before making our choices. In this process of

evaluation, it is not uncommon for us,

particularly in our younger years, to

look to someone we admire as our ideal

or our hero. It might be a parent, an

athlete, a leader in the community, etc.

I suggest to the young men of the

Aaronic Priesthood, yes, to all young

men everywhere, that the greatest hero,

if you will, who has ever lived is the

Savior of mankind, Jesus Christ. I also

suggest that his life and teachings are

just as relevant today as at any time

in history.

Learning about Jesus

It is particularly important that

young men holding his priesthood become intimately acquainted with him

in order to know and to understand

him. Unfortunately, artists and others

have pictured him as effeminate, soft,

and sad. If we analyze his life at all,

we see a person who was masculine,

strong, vigorous, interested in all that

was going on about him, surely loving

and kind, but at the same time one

who could exhibit righteous anger. If

this were not true, how could he have

caused rough fishermen to follow him

with just one sentence: "Follow me,

and I will make you fishers of men"?

(Matt. 4:19.) He spent his youth and

young adulthood as a carpenter, a trade

requiring strength and skill. Would

he have dared drive the money

changers from the temple had he not

been a man of great strength and courage? It takes a man of unusual warmth

to attract throngs of little children as

the Savior did. No other man has lived

whose influence has been so profound

in directing the course of human behavior.

Concern about problems

As the young men of the Aaronic

Priesthood become better acquainted

with the life and teachings of the

Savior, and as they emulate these

teachings, new purpose and direction

will come into their lives. They will

find that the Savior was concerned

with many of the same complex problems that exist today; for example,

hypocrisy, one of today's most serious

problems. Of all the weaknesses of

men, this one was most strongly denounced by the Savior. He said: "But

woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees,

hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom

of heaven against men: for ye neither

go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them

that are entering to go in.

"Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour widows'

houses, and for a pretence make long

prayer: therefore ye shall receive the

greater damnation.

"Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint

and anise and cummin, and have

omitted the weightier matters of the

law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these

ought ye to have done, and not to

leave the other undone." (Matt. 23:13-

14, 23.)

Man of courage and compassion

It took a man of great courage and

vitality to speak and act as Jesus did.

At the same time, all that he said and

did was tempered by love, compassion,

and charity.

As he hung on the cross suffering the

agony of cruel torture, he said, "Father,

forgive them; for they know not what

they do." (Luke 23:34.)

In today's world of confusion and

conflict, the life and teachings of Jesus

of Nazareth stand alone as the certain

solution to man's problems. No greater

opportunity or blessing can come into

the life of a young man than to be

called and ordained to the Aaronic

Priesthood, thus being authorized to

act for him who gave his life on

Calvary.

An important assignment

The Aaronic Priesthood is not a

make-work activity designed to keep

young men busy and out of trouble. It

is a segment of the government of the

kingdom of God on the earth. Those

holding it are empowered to perform

the duties that will aid the Lord in

accomplishing his work and his glory,

which he said was "to bring to pass the

immortality and eternal life of man."

(Moses 1:39.)

No greater nor more important assignment can come to a boy or a man

than this. President Wilford Woodruff, a prophet of God, supports this

assessment of the Aaronic Priesthood:

"... I went out as a Priest, and my

companion as an Elder, and we traveled thousands of miles, and had many

things manifested to us. I desire to

impress upon you the fact that it does

not make any difference whether a

man is a Priest or an Apostle, if he

magnifies his calling. A Priest holds

the keys of the ministering of angels.

Never in my life, as an Apostle, as a

Seventy, or as an Elder, have I ever

had more of the protection of the Lord

than while holding the office of

Priest." (Wilford Woodruff, in Millennial Star, October 5, 1891, p. 629.)

I bear my humble witness to all who

hear my voice this day, that John the

Baptist actually and literally did appear to Joseph Smith and Oliver

Cowdery and conferred upon them the

keys of the Aaronic Priesthood. If parents, leaders, and holders of this

priesthood will recognize it for what

it truly is, and if our young men will

make themselves acquainted with him

who stands at the head and emulate

his life, a mighty and great generation

of leaders will come forth. In the name

of Jesus Christ. Amen. O

