President Tanner said to me, "Because

of the loyalty of our people, we must

be sure that we are right." And that

becomes a great concern. To be as

certain as we know how, these things

are subjected to prayer and fasting and

careful, mature consideration, in order

that we might have "the will of the

Lord, . . . the mind of the Lord, . . . the

voice of the Lord, . . . and the power of

God unto salvation." (D&C 68:4.) You

may understand, then, that these things

that have been announced to you have

come with the official approval. We

ask the loyalty of the membership of

the priesthood now to get behind these

magazines and see to it that they become the greatest magazines printed

for each group of our people that may

be available throughout the world.

One more thought: If you had to sit

facing these blazing lights for these

hours, as we do here on the stand, you

would have seen beads of perspiration

on Elder Monson's brow as he talked to

you, and as you will see on my brow,

and on others who will speak. We

understand that the temperature here

is about fifteen degrees higher than

where you brethren sit. I say that so

that you will be a little more comfortable.

Mind over matter

I was up in Preston, Idaho, sometime

ago, dedicating a meetinghouse, and

I thought as I sat there in that lovely

place, My, isn't it wonderful that we

have these air-conditioned buildings

today, such as we didn't have in my

younger years. In the course of the

meeting, the bishop announced that

their air-conditioning system was not

working. Suddenly I became very uncomfortably warm. That is what happens to us when our minds take

precedence over matter.

I said to Brother Evans one day,

"These punishing lights—they are

devastating." And he said something

to me that caused me some thought.

He said, "If you want to be seen, you

must be lighted."

Let your light shine

Now I want to translate that into

something for you to think about. If

you want to have the power of the

priesthood to be of any benefit to you

or before the world, you must keep it

lighted. You must exercise it.

The Master said, "Neither do men

light a candle, and put it under a

bushel, but on a candlestick; and it

giveth light unto all that are in the

house." Then he added, "Let your

light so shine before men, that they

may see your good works, and glorify

your Father which is in heaven."

(Matt. 5:15-16.)

If you want to be seen as holders of

the priesthood, you have to keep your

lamp lighted.

The Lord said in a great revelation,

". . . if you will that I give unto you a

place in the celestial world, you must

prepare yourselves by doing the things

which I have commanded you and

required of you." (D&C 78:7.)

A continuing revolution

I want now to make one more comment. The kingdom of God must be

a continuing revolution against the

norms of the society that fall below

the standards that are set for us in the

gospel of Jesus Christ. In the field of

public life, it must be a continuing

revolution against proposals that contradict the fundamental principles as

laid down in the Constitution of the

United States, which was written by

men whom God raised up for this very

purpose. If we remember that, we will

be in the forefront of every battle

against the things that are tearing

down our society.

Observing the Sabbath

I am sure we were all impressed

when Brother Eldred G. Smith said in

his address that it shouldn't be necessary to make laws to persuade the

Latter-day Saints to keep the Sabbath

day holy. If the body of the priesthood

—if you 150,000 members of the priesthood who are in these various gathering places—would resolve here and

now that neither you nor your families

will hereafter patronize any business

that is open on Sunday, it wouldn't be

long until they would close their busi-

nesses on Sunday. You would wield

such a force and power that you would

dry up the businesses that are making

their Sunday opening profitable. They

are only catering to the needs of the

people who are demanding Sunday

service. You think about it, you

brethren.

Pornography

Pornographic literature! It has been

a shock, I am sure, to all of us to read

the report of the commission that has

been studying obscenity reports, and

the recommendation that there should

be a repeal of all laws prohibiting the

distribution of explicit, sexual materials

to consenting adults. Shocking! Now

brethren, this is a thing that we must,

as a priesthood, take a firm stand

against, and do everything within our

communities to see to it that by every

means within our power we are going

to play down the showing of or the

distribution of any kind of pornographic literature, films, or advertisements. It has been a delight to us to

have our Deseret News announce that,

shortly, there will be no advertising

of "R" and "X" rated films. We would

wish it would be so in every community. If you brethren, in all of

your communities, would now take a

firm stand, I think there would be a

time shortly when somebody would

wake up to the fact that we are no

longer going to tolerate these kinds of

things that are placed before our people

to tear down their morals.

Heirs to celestial kingdom

One more thought and then I shall

be through. President Smith talked

about the oath and covenant that belongs to the priesthood. This is but

another way of saying what the Lord

has said in revelations when he spoke

of those who would be heirs to the

celestial kingdom. He said, "They are

they who received the testimony of

Jesus, and believed on his name and

were baptized, . . . and receive the Holy

Spirit by the laying on of the hands . .

.

and are sealed by the Holy Spirit of

promise." (D&C 76:51-53.)

Holy Spirit of promise

In another revelation, he said that a

man and wife who are sealed by the

Holy Spirit of promise shall pass by

the angels and gods that are set there

to their exaltation and glory in all

things, as has been sealed upon their

heads.

In an explanation of what it means

to be sealed by the Holy Spirit of

promise, one of our brethren said this:

"While we receive eternal blessings at

the hands of the priesthood which has

the right to seal on earth and it shall

be sealed in the heavens, this revelation clearly states that it must be sealed

by the Holy Spirit of promise also. A

man and woman may by fraud and

deception obtain admittance to the

House of the Lord and may receive the

pronouncement of the holy priesthood,

giving to them so far as lies in their

power these blessings. We may deceive

men but we cannot deceive the Holy

Ghost, and our blessings will not be

eternal unless they are also sealed by

the Holy Spirit of promise. The Holy

Ghost is one who reads the thoughts

and hearts of men, and gives his sealing approval to the blessings pronounced upon their heads. Then it is

binding, efficacious, and of full force."

(Melvin J.

Ballard, "Three Degrees of

Glory.")

A force in the world

Remembering that then, brethren,

we are prepared to understand what

the brethren meant when they spoke at

the dedication of the Idaho Falls Temple about the stand we could take now

in such matters as politics. We are

approaching another election. Let us

hear again what the brethren prayed

for in that dedicatory prayer:

"We pray that kings and rulers and

the peoples of all nations under heaven

may be persuaded of the blessings enjoyed by the people of this land by

reason of their freedom under thy

guidance, and be constrained to adopt

similar governmental systems, thus to

fulfill the ancient prophecy of Isaiah,

that out of Zion shall go forth the law

and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem."

Brethren of the priesthood, if we will

be united and let our light shine, and

not hide our light under a bushel but

exercise it righteously, and let our

priesthood callings be an eternal revolution against the norms of society or

against any proposals that fall below

the standards as set forth in the gospel

of Jesus Christ or as laid down by the

Constitution of the United States written by inspired men, then we will be a

force in the world that will be "the

marvelous work and wonder" which

the Lord said the kingdom of God was

to be.

I pray that it might be so, brethren,

and we would thus magnify, as Presi

dent Smith has said, our callings in the

priesthood, in the name of the Lord

Jesus Christ. Amen.