Elder Neal A. Maxwell

Church Commissioner of Education

President Smith, President Lee, and

President Tanner, it is an anxietyproducing privilege for one to respond

to your invitation to communicate

with the priesthood about the Church

Educational System, but it is proper to

give time and attention to the needs

of our youth engaged in education. We

have, for instance, 12,000 full-time

missionaries, who matter very much;

26,000 men and women in the service,

who matter very much, also; but there

are around 200,000 LDS students enrolled in hundreds of colleges and universities around the world.

Sixteen percent, or approximately

32,000, of those 200,000 are enrolled in

the four post-high school institutions in

our own Church Educational System,

and this is a very important "fold."

But there are 168,000 other LDS students, "which are not of that fold,"

and they, too, need to hear the "voice"

of the Master through our institute

program.

The scope and variety of the Church

Educational System is impressive: in

addition to the students already mentioned, there are 13,000 LDS children

and youth in dozens of Church elementary and secondary schools in Mexico, Chile, and in the Pacific; there are

also over 175,000 students in our institutes and seminaries.

Letter of First Presidency

The basic guidelines for our Church

Educational System have been well

laid down by our Church leaders over

the years and need not be repeated

here. A new but basic document, however, is the letter of the First Presidency dated January 30, 1970, which

urges Church members to have their

sons and daughters attend post-high

school institutions of learning near

their home, so that our young can

benefit from the influence of the home,

especially during their first two years

of post-high school education. That

document also urges leaders and parents to make full use of our seminary

and institute programs to supplement

the home. In addition, the letter indicates that the Presidency, in their wisdom, believe the enrollment at BYU

should not exceed 25,000. There are

numerous considerations which, I believe, underlie the wisdom of the points

in that presidential letter:

1. The density of Church membership occurs in America where states

have highly developed and accessible

public post-high school systems of education.

2. Members of the Church are taxpayers to local, state, and federal

governments in America and their

equivalents in Canada, and are fully

entitled to send their sons and daughters to tax-supported institutions. The

influence of Church members (whether

as students or taxpayers) on our public

institutions is needed now—more than

ever.

3. The increased effectiveness of

correlated Church priesthood programs,

such as home teaching, family home

evenings, of student stakes and wards,

MIA, and the Student Associations now

permits the priesthood leaders, in some

instances, to cross the traditional geographical boundaries governing some

Church programs, in order to support

and to involve the young members of

the Church.

4. Those of us who live in areas

where there are highly developed public systems of post-high school education, in the spirit of brotherhood,

should defer to the needs of our

brothers and sisters in other lands

where, often, even an elementary education is not possible unless the Church

assists in the process.

Internationalization of the Church

One of the great challenges the

priesthood faces in our time is the internationalization of the Church. This is

not an American church—it is the

Church of Jesus Christ, who is the

God of all people on this planet, and

we must, as the scriptures urge, be as

independent as possible so that the

kingdom is not too much at the mercy

of men and circumstances, or the tides

of nationalism, or the mercurial moods

abroad about America.

We have, for instance, more members of the Church now in Brazil than

in all of the Scandinavian countries

combined, plus Holland. We have as

many members in Uruguay as in the

state of New York, where the Church

was founded. We have as many in

Peru as we do in Missouri, where so

much Church history was made. We

have as many in Tonga and Samoa

combined as in Nevada, and more in

these two island clusters than in the

state of Wyoming. We have more in

French Polynesia than in Switzerland,

and more in the Philippine Islands

than Nebraska, through which our pioneer caravans passed. We have more

in Honduras than in Norway.

Challenge for educational system

These comparisons are sobering and

challenging not only for the Church

Educational System, but for the entire

Church. Thus, the transculturalization

of curricular materials (which is more

than translation) represents one of our

greatest challenges. The scriptures urge

the Church to speak to men "after the

manner of their language," taking their

various weaknesses into account that

all "might come to understanding."

(D&C 1:24.)

We want our Church Educational

System to respond as much as we can

to the special conditions in which our

members live. Our seminary home

study program, for instance, was organized especially for the benefit of

young members who are isolated from

their Church counterparts, and the

response of over 7,000 to this program

has been excellent!

Need for priesthood support

There are several specific things

priesthood leaders and parents can do.

First, priesthood leaders need much

closer identification with our institute

and seminary programs (through the

Regional Representatives of the Twelve

and stake presidents) so that two-way

communication can exist concerning

the needs of the young, the quality of

teaching they receive, and, importantly,

the need for priesthood support in recruiting top-flight men for careers in

our diverse Church Educational System; men, some of whom we now

have, such as the spartan seminary

teachers who live with their families

in small trailers on remote reservations

in heat, wind, sand, in places with

names like Many Farms, Arizona, or in

blizzard country like Pine Ridge, South

Dakota, in order to serve and to teach

hundreds of the children of Father

Lehi. One expression of appreciation

from an Indian boy included these

moving words: "Before I took LDS

seminary I didn't have very much to

live for. ... I had always felt that

Indians could not do things as well as

white people. Now I know that I am

a child of God. I know that my people

are of the house of Israel. . . . The

Church has given me a reason and

purpose for living. There is more to

living now than just worrying about

what I will have to eat or what I will

wear."

Elsewhere, in hundreds of homes and

chapels every weekday, early-morning

seminary students and teachers rub

sleep from eyes that often shine an

hour later with appreciation.

Thousand of miles away in lush,

tropical islands, our young members

learn to read and write, and elsewhere

many of our Mexican brothers and

sisters are rapidly preparing themselves

as schoolteachers to instruct their own.

Truly, careers in the Church Educational System offer full scope for all

the idealism of the world, but companied with the saving gospel message.

Seminary and institute program

Seminary and institute classrooms

represent some of the golden teaching

moments for our youth in preparing

them for crowning gospel ordinances.

Where our young are committed

enough, and fortunate enough, to be

able to take institute classes and persist

through graduation, their rate of temple marriage is 95 percent, which is

a higher percentage than for our returned missionaries. Of course, the

mere act of attending an institute represents self-selection, just as attending

a Church school involves some selfselection. But if we are trying to

identify paths that our youth can pursue that will give them a better chance

of succeeding spiritually, attendance at

seminaries and institutes is clearly a

major tributary to the stream of

spirituality.

Counsel on vocational planning

A second matter that priesthood leaders and parents should consider is the

need to counsel all of our young more

consistently and helpfully about the

planning of their vocations and careers.

This will be a continuing task; it is not

something we can talk about once in a

stake priesthood meeting and forget.

One of the basic reasons for the pursuit of education is to equip oneself

with marketable skills. The less advantaged national economies within

which many of our members outside

America live, and the shifting prospects

with regard to where the career and

job opportunities will be even in

America—both suggest that some additional emphasis is needed in the direction of technical education, which bears

on a middle group of skills. For some

of our young, earning power, job opportunities, and satisfaction will be greater

if they pursue the path of technical

education in their post-high school

years, including paramedical careers.

Professional education in medicine,

law, nursing, etc., is going to be needed

even more than ever, but all of our

youth need not be neurosurgeons, and

the youth who becomes a craftsman

should feel just as "approved" as his

friend who is a microbiologist. Parents,

bishops, and educational counselors

will do well to approach career counseling, bearing in mind that the selection of a career is usually a matter of

preference and not principle.

Education and capacity to love

A third suggestion: Education, when

joined with service to others (for learning loses its moral authority unless it

reaches out) is clearly related to the

development of deserved self-esteem,

which controls our capacity to love

God, to love others, and to love life.

We can pursue learning without

fear, for the gospel of Jesus Christ incorporates all truth, but it distinguishes

between mere fact and saving truths.

We can be patient with the imponderables, especially in view of the relevancy of the gospel of Jesus Christ to

the social and political problems of our

time, but we must do much more to

help our young to see the preventive

and prescriptive powers of the gospel

for those very problems about which

our young are rightfully concerned. For

the gospel tells us that we have a real

brotherhood that will last beyond the

grave: it is not merely a biological

brotherhood.

The gospel tells us that unchastity

can cause inner spiritual "concussions" and "bleeding." Jacob described

people in a time of gross unchastity

as being in a circumstance in which

"many hearts died, pierced with deep

wounds." (Jac. 2:35.) The gospel is

relevant in its preachment of love at

home, which is a solution to many

problems ranging from aid to de

pendent children to alienation. And

orthodoxy is vital because it increases

human happiness, whether in preventing the misery that grows out of alcoholism or in treating the guilt.

Example and experience

A fourth observation: We will also

do our young a great favor if our efforts to teach the gospel to them include not only teaching by exhortation

and explanation, which are vital, but

also by the eloquence of example and

the confirmation of experience, for the

latter two methods weigh very heavily

on the scales of today's youth.

Importance of home

Fifth: The home will always be our

most vital teaching institution. When

the home fails, it will be difficult for

the other institutions of any culture or

society—political, economic, and even

educational—to compensate for the

failures in the home. If we poison the

headwaters of humanity—the home—it

is exceedingly difficult to depollute

downstream. If we wish to make our

efforts count in meeting the vexing

challenges of our time, the ecology of

effectiveness suggests of the home that

truly, "This is the place!"

Spirit of cooperation

Within the basic correlation concepts, which stress the primacy of

priesthood and home, I see a new

spirit of cooperation moving in the

Church. Those charged with programs

that support the home—Elder Marion

D. Hanks, who manages the Student

Association; Elder Marvin J. Ashton,

who manages Social Services; Brother

James Mason, Commissioner of Health

Services; and the staff of the Church

Educational System—are approaching

common, overlapping problems in the

spirit of serving Church members,

rather than letting organizational lines

become immovable, bureaucratic walls,

for, especially in saving souls, "something there is that doesn't love a wall."

(Robert Frost.)

Commitment to education

Finally, let us assure our young that

the cadence of the divine commitment

to education and the quest for truth

echo, like a drum roll, through the

corridors of dispensational history

—

Abraham, a man of God and a brilliant

astronomer, who pondered the planets

and considered the cosmos in the loneliness of the desert; Jesus, the Master,

who while yet a youth taught his

elders in the seat of learning, having

prepared himself intellectually and

spiritually; Joseph Smith's School of

the Prophets, where the enthusiasm for

education overrode the discouraging

circumstances of the moment; the

schools and university that were started

in this valley so soon after the wheels

on pioneer wagons and handcarts had

ceased turning.

Those who possess absolute truths

need fear no ancillary truth but should

pursue learning vigorously, since learning is good so long as we "hearken unto

the counsels of God." When education

is thus pursued by our young today,

they should be assured by all of us

that they are "about" their "Father's

business," and be witnessed to; that

when man has reached the small

"periphery of the spider web of his

own reason and logic," he will find

the ropes of revelation on which he

can climb upward, forever! May we

help our youth, I pray in the name of

the Master Teacher, Jesus Christ.

Amen. o

